It has also enriched the New York Republican State Committee, strengthening the senator's formidable political network and reinforcing his status as the state's dominant Republican.
Over the last four years, D'Amato's Senate campaign has received more than $220,000 from MBNA's political action committee, its executives and the executives' family members, according to disclosure records.
D'Amato, though, has far exceeded the fund-raising of any other senator through his positions as chairman of the Banking Committee, which oversees much of the financial industry, and as a member of the Finance Committee, which governs tax legislation.
MBNA's donations to this committee dropped sharply after another senator became its chairman in 1997, records show.
They contend that D'Amato has used the Republican State Committee to accept big donations from the financial industry because the committee's accounts are subject to little regulation.
Williams, the firm's chairman, has contributed $63,000 to the Republican State Committee in the last two years, including $13,000 as he was lobbying D'Amato on the tax break.
``That facilitated entre to the senator,'' said Dave Williams, chairman of Alliance Capital Management, referring to contributions to D'Amato's committees.
But since taking over the Banking Committee in 1995, he has made his previous fund-raising seem almost pedestrian, harvesting millions of dollars from individuals and companies in the financial industry that, like MBNA, have a stake in legislation that as chairman he can control with a penstroke.
He has not come under official scrutiny since he became chairman of the panel _ known as the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs _ which covers a broad swath of the nation's economy, from banking and securities regulations to export controls to urban mass transit.
In MBNA's case, D'Amato has unsuccessfully supported the company's efforts to revamp the consumer protection statute, which in most instances bars mortgage providers from paying fees to get referrals.
