Citing a variety of reasons _ Hormel's generous financial contributions to gay causes, his establishment of a gay and lesbian learning center at the San Francisco library that bears his name, and his refusal to denounce the Catholic-mocking ``Sisters of Perpetual Indulgence'' _ Hormel's adversaries said his confirmation would be an affront to the people of Luxembourg, who are 95 percent Catholic.
In a speech on the Senate floor last month, Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla., one of at least four senators blocking the nomination, read from a Chronicle article in which a gay leader called Hormel's appointment a ``reward to gays and lesbians for their support'' of Clinton's candidacy.
The White House recently made a high-profile push for another embattled nominee _ Bill Lann Lee, the administration's choice as the Department of Justice's civil rights chief _ and is preparing to do the same with Hormel.
``The president, the vice president, and the secretary of state continue to take every opportunity to push the leadership of the Senate,'' said Clinton aide Richard Socarides.
The clash could quickly grow into a high-profile showdown over gay rights, reminiscent of former San Francisco Supervisor Roberta Achtenberg's fight to win confirmation for a high-ranking post at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
WASHINGTON _ Democrats hope to breathe new life this week into the moribund nomination of San Francisco philanthropist James Hormel as ambassador to Luxembourg, embarking on a strategy that could elevate a low-level diplomatic appointment into a battleground over gay rights.
Although he appears to have the support of a majority of senators, a handful of Republicans have voiced objections to Hormel's long-standing support for gay causes and used a procedural maneuver to prevent the full Senate from voting.
Hormel is the nation's first openly gay nominee for an ambassadorship, a post that requires Senate confirmation.
Hormel, heir to a meat-packing company fortune and a major contributor to the Democratic Party, has the support of at least 44 Democrats and 14 Republicans _ easily enough to win confirmation _ according to aides to Sen. Dianne Feinstein.
``I will continue to oppose the confirmation of individuals who are nominated for various positions if I believe, in my own heart, that that individual is not going to represent the best interests of America and has his own personal agenda in advance of Americans,'' said Inhofe.
