``It is certainly true that Congressman McDermott is going to defend this case in a way that's going to pursue delay and cost a lot of money, and I think Congressman Boehner is perfectly justified in trying to raise the funds to try to counteract that,'' Cruz said.
``This case presents about as stark an issue of free speech as can be imagined: one political leader is seeking to punish another political leader for allegedly disclosing a conversation among some of the nation's top political leaders on a political topic,'' McDermott argued.
Boehner's fund-raising letter, sent in late March, was filed Monday in U.S. District Court by McDermott's lawyers, who cited the letter as evidence that the case is motivated by a partisan battle and not by serious legal matters.
``He's pursuing a two-pronged attack, the first being to toss in a bunch of fiery rhetoric and invective, and the second being to ignore the legal arguments that were made in our response,'' said Ted Cruz, a lawyer for Boehner.
Boehner, R-Ohio, did not specify in the letter what consequences Reno should face for declining to prosecute McDermott, D-Wash, although at one point he wrote ``if Janet Reno won't do her job, she shouldn't have her job.''
The dispute between Boehner and McDermott began in December 1996, when Boehner, sitting in a car in the parking lot of a Florida waffle house, used his wife's cellular telephone to participate in a phone conversation with GOP leaders.
Boehner is using his campaign treasury to pay for a lawsuit against McDermott, who he believes provided newspaper reporters with a tape of an illegally recorded phone conversation between Boehner, House Speaker Newt Gingrich and other top House Republicans.
WASHINGTON _ House Republican Conference Chairman John Boehner is using his dispute with Rep. Jim McDermott as a fund-raising tool, urging potential campaign contributors to send money to ``help me bring the Democrats to justice.''
``Americans are fed up with self-righteous liberals who think eavesdropping, illegally taping private conversations, and leaking privileged information are OK as long as it's the Democrats who are doing it,'' Boehner wrote.
``This would be a very simple case if it weren't for Congressman McDermott's repeated efforts to hide the facts and use every legal tool he can to drag it out.''
