The symptoms of chore deficiency were not spelled out by the moms (and I was much too ashamed to ask), but one can assume they include listlessness, lassitude, ennui and, in the later stages, chronic ``South Park'' viewing interrupted by long periods of staring morosely into the refrigerator.
Until I overheard the Little League moms, I didn't realize that one could be deficient in chores, just as one could be deficient in vitamin A, vitamin C or thiamine.
I was pretty dizzy by the time the third mom spoke, but I think she said her 12-year-old son had recently re-marcited the pool, performed an emergency appendectomy on the family cat and restructured their stock portfolio, but that he was ``not perfect'' and sometimes needed to be reminded to pick up his socks.
It would be interesting to ask successful people about the kind and number of chores they performed as children, assuming you could count on them to tell the truth, which you probably couldn't.
It would probably be more useful to ask the parents of successful people how many chores their kids did, assuming, after all the sordid stories we've heard about him so far, that we really want to know that Bill Clinton had to be told twice to pick up his socks.
I say this because I suspect (as well as hope) that adults exaggerate the number of chores they did as children to the point that you wonder how they had time to go to school, so busy were they chopping wood, plowing fields and just generally thumbing their snotty little noses at the child labor laws.
On good days, for example, we only have to tell him 18 times to pick his clothes up off the floor and my wife says she recalls a time he walked the dog without being threatened, though I personally think she's confusing our son with someone she saw on TV.
But now I know that, compared to the ultra-choring kids of the Little League moms, our son is severely chore-deficient to the point that we should be glad he gets out of bed at all, let alone at noon.
The Little League moms did not tell me, and again I did not ask, what the ramifications are of chore deficiency.
As if I don't have anything better to do than eat stale popcorn, sip watery Mountain Dews and shout ``good eye!''
