``What we try to do is show developers that there is usually a way to preserve the archeological resources and still allow development,'' said James Walker, southwest regional director of the conservancy, which preserves but does not necessarily excavate the sites.
For now, archeologists say, they must rely on the largesse of developers, who are under no legal obligation to safeguard archeological sites on private land unless their construction projects involve federal money or permits.
``Public land is iffy; it's a farce on private land,'' Grace Schoonover, a Phoenix native and amateur archeologist whose Cave Creek home office is filled with survey maps and artists' renderings of the intricate web of canals dug by the Hohokam.
Developers who do right by archeological ruins are what Schoonover calls ``the good guys,'' and there are plenty of them even in the 9,238 square miles that make up Maricopa County, whose population grew more than 27 percent to 2.7 million from 1990 to 1997, according to the US Census Bureau.
Still, with the entire city of Phoenix and much of the surrounding area built on the ancient civilization's ruins, the tensions between archeology buffs and developers are apparent.
No one _ not the cities, not the state, not the developers _ has enough money to excavate the hundreds, maybe even thousands, of sites in Maricopa County alone.
Today, the conservancy has 14 sites in Arizona, but just one in the Phoenix area _ the Hohokam village on 2 acres in the midst of the posh Scottsdale subdivision that the Nelsons built.
``Whenever we're sitting around complaining, I always say, `Yeah, they should've stopped building right after they built my house,''' said Vicky Erhart, an amateur archeologist and SWAT team member.
But with Maricopa County growing faster than any other in the country, archeologists fear that Hohokam sites are disappearing daily, before they even have a chance to record their existence.
Keith Nath, Mesa's engineering and construction director, conceded that the city does no archeological surveys unless it is aware that ruins are in the area.
