Sources close to the selection process said the other proposed panelists include Maurice Hayes, the former Northern Ireland ombudsman; Lucy Woods, the chief of British Telecom in Northern Ireland; Clifford Sheering, a South African criminologist at the University of Toronto; and John Smith, former deputy commissioner of the Metropolitan Police in London.
DUBLIN _ Kathleen M. O'Toole, the Massachusetts secretary of public safety, is one of five people expected to be named this week to a commission that will recommend reform of the Royal Ulster Constabulary, Northern Ireland's police force.
The pact of April 10, known as the Good Friday accord, acknowledges the need to change the RUC and establishes an independent commission to recommend how to ``ensure that policing arrangements, including composition, recruitment, training, culture, ethos and symbols, are such that in a new approach, Northern Ireland has a police service that can enjoy widespread support from, and is seen as an integral part of, the community as a whole.''
As one of the highest-ranking female police administrators in the United States, O'Toole caught the attention of Mowlam, who met O'Toole two years ago in Boston when she was the British Labor Party's shadow secretary for Northern Ireland.
In an interview with the Globe last month, Ronnie Flanagan, the RUC chief, said he appreciated O'Toole's efforts, especially last year's presentation on domestic violence.
But sources close to the selection process in Belfast said that the Northern Ireland secretary of state, Mo Mowlam, will announce the appointment of O'Toole and four other commission members, possibly as early as Monday.
O'Toole, 44, who would be the only American and one of two international figures on the panel, impressed law enforcement and government officials in Northern Ireland during three visits there as Massachusetts' top law enforcement official.
A police officer for 19 years, she has also served with the Metropolitan Police before it merged with the State Police.
``If I am appointed, I'd be delighted and honored to serve,'' said O'Toole, who announced last week she would leave her state Cabinet position this year to become director of the alumni association at her alma mater, Boston College.
Last year, Hayes wrote a report recommending changes in the way complaints against police in Northern Ireland are handled.
