Ever since Southeast Asia's economic crisis began with a meltdown of Thailand's banking system last summer, it has been tempting to envision economic catastrophe followed by uncontrollable political turmoil.
John Bresnan, a senior research scholar at Columbia University's East Asian Institute, said Thailand ``has had enormous success in the last nine months,'' having headed off martial law, adopted a new constitution, changed governments, removed the head of the central bank and recovered some economic ground.
James H. Nolt, assistant professor of political science at the New School and senior fellow at the World Policy Institute in New York, said educational investment has produced not only managers and competent public officials but also a large pool of skilled engineers and technicians.
The ruins of crony banks and businesses built on corruption and special favors litter the devastated economies of Southeast Asia, making it easy to notice what the region's leaders did wrong.
Nihal Jayawikrama, executive director of Transparency International, a private group based in Berlin that fights corruption worldwide, said that both Singapore and Hong Kong tackled corruption in ways his organization would not advocate _ by fiat rather than through the natural cleansing process of open elections, a strong and independent judiciary and a free press.
Last week, tens of thousands of South Korean workers went on strike to protest layoffs even as Hong Kong's stock market plunged 5.3 percent and economists talked of a ``contagion'' that has now helped undermine Russia's financial reserves.
Led by Thailand, several Southeast Asian nations have also cut birth rates substantially by making safe family planning methods readily available to most ordinary people.
``But I think the fact that the currencies of those two countries were affected least last year seems to suggest that there is a link between corruption and economic crisis,'' he said.
Noeleen Heyzer, a Singaporean who is executive director of Unifem, the United Nations development program for women, says educational spending _ 20 percent or more of the budget in some countries _ did not bypass the grass roots, as it did in many other regions.
Jean-Michel Severino, the World Bank's vice president for East Asia and the Pacific, cites three major achievements.
