Those PACs are such a well-established part of Washington fund raising that despite recent concerns about the illegal money influence on American foreign policy, no one seems to care about the ``legal'' PAC influences.
(The pro-Israel PACs are difficult to identify in campaign filings because, like other interest groups, they have neutral names: `` Washington PAC'' and ``Americans for Good Government,'' for example.)
Gingrich's latest candidate disclosure reports reflect almost no contributions from pro-Israel PACS, though his separate ``Monday Morning PAC,'' from which he assists other GOP candidates, has collected some pro-Israel money.
But Gingrich hardly qualifies for the list of Georgians in Congress who have distinguished themselves on foreign policy: Sen. Walter George, who won high praise from President Dwight D. Eisenhower for his bipartisan approach; Sens.
Aside from picking on Albright, Gingrich, the history professor, knows the first lesson of statesmanship is to share foreign policy concerns of a delicate nature with the secretary or the president privately.
Surely there was a touch of it in the comments of House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) when he declared for the benefit of the world _ and especially Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu _ that Albright was nothing more than an ``agent of the Palestinians.''
Federal candidates in both parties make command appearances before the American-Israel Public Affairs Committee, the powerful pro-Israel lobbying force that alerts a network of Jewish PACs about politicians' remarks and votes.
And Dole won Democratic kudos on numerous occasions for his bipartisan approach, most recently when he supported President Clinton in retaining U.S. troops in Bosnia past a prior congressional deadline.
Gingrich has left himself open to speculation that he had an even more troubling motive for publicly bashing U.S. policy in the Middle East at a delicate time for reviving peace negotiations: fund raising back home.
Bush once declared he would never oppose openly the foreign policy of a seated president.
