``We want to position ourselves for the 21st century as a huge distribution and transshipment center to all of Latin America,'' said Nessim Bassan, vice president of Fila Sportwear Corp. and a former president of the Colon Free Zone Users' Association.
Established in June 1948, the Colon Free Zone has enjoyed a virtual monopoly on free trade in Latin America for most of its existence because governments almost everywhere else imposed high tariffs on foreign goods to protect inefficient domestic industries.
``We are a huge warehouse,'' with up to $1.5 billion in goods on hand at any time, said Nidal Waked, the current president of the users' association that represents the zone's more than 1,200 businesses.
Richard Wainio, the just-retired director of planning for the Panama Canal Commission, the U.S. government body charged with administering the waterway until its handover to Panama on Dec. 31, 1999, predicts that Colon's role will shrink as world trade expands.
But ``if an American company uses the Free Zone to divert its products to Cuba, that's a different matter,'' she added, one best resolved by American authorities.
``They are going to have to reinvent themselves,'' said Victoria Figge, the Free Zone's government-appointed chief administrator from 1994 to 1997 and now the head of the Panamanian government's money-laundering monitoring unit.
Even with the regional boom in free trade, they argue, it is both quicker and cheaper for merchants in nearby countries to rely on Colon as a distribution point than to deal directly with manufacturers in Asia or the United States.
COLON, Panama _ ``A den of pirates,'' one U.S. government official snorted when asked about the warren of shops, warehouses and banks just off the Caribbean entrance to the Panama Canal.
Foreign manufacturers also have reason to retain the Colon connection rather than to export directly to Latin American buyers, merchants here said.
``I think they want to wean themselves from this, but they don't quite know how to do it yet,'' said a U.S. government official who specializes in money laundering.
