Assemblyman Alex DeCroce, a Republican who is chairman of the Assembly Transportation Committee, said he did not believe that a portion of a gasoline tax increase should be used for open space preservation, but that he had not yet decided whether he would support the governor's proposal.
In an interview Monday, state Sen. Robert Littell, a Republican who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, said he would consider raising the gasoline tax for transportation projects, but not for open space preservation.
Christie Whitman faces growing opposition in the state Legislature over her proposal to raise the gasoline tax by 7 cents a gallon to help finance improvements in transportation and preserve open space.
``The reason why I talked about an increase in the gasoline tax going on the ballot is because I want to see it constitutionally dedicated so that money raised won't go to other things,'' Whitman said after learning about Codey's remarks.
The increase would raise the state's gasoline tax, the lowest in the region, to 21.5 cents a gallon from 14.5 cents.
State Sen. Richard Codey, the Democratic leader, said Monday that the Senate's 16 Democrats would not support the tax increase.
Whitman has called for 5 cents of the proposed 7-cent-a-gallon increase to be used for transportation improvements and 2 cents for the purchase of one million acres, about half of the remaining undeveloped land in the state, during the next 10 years.
He said he supported alternate proposals in the Legislature to raise money to buy undeveloped land in the state, including a bill that would dedicate a quarter of a percent of existing sales tax revenue for land purchases.
``We believe that achieving funding for transportation projects and finding a stable source of revenue for open space preservation are still achievable,'' said Whitman's press secretary, Jayne O'Connor.
Several top Republicans in the Legislature have also expressed reservations, saying a gasoline tax increase should not be used for open space.
