According to senior U.S. officials, the Clinton administration has also been considering options that officials said include additional military training, provision of more sophisticated helicopters and materiel, and creation of a high-tech intelligence center that would be run by U.S. officials on Colombian soil.
But intelligence officials have said that there is scant evidence of a major change in the insurgents' relationship with the traffickers, and that the impact of Colombia's coca boom on the availability of drugs in the United States is probably not great.
While Washington's concerns about the country have risen over the last year, Colombian leaders were cutting their military spending and suggesting a new willingness to negotiate with the insurgents.
WASHINGTON _ Concerned about the growing power of leftist rebels in Colombia, the Clinton administration is expanding its support for government forces fighting in the hemisphere's longest-running guerrilla war.
``This is not a one-night stand,'' said the commander of U.S. military forces in Latin America and the Caribbean, Gen. Charles Wilhelm.
Officials say more U.S. training and equipment are going to shore up basic deficiencies in the tactics, mobility and firepower of the Colombian military, rather than for operations directed at the drug trade.
They say the rebels, by in effect renting their forces to protect those who grow coca and refine cocaine, have been able to pay for new recruits, better weapons and more aggressive strikes against the government.
They point to cases in which more than a dozen Colombian army units given anti-drug training by the United States were later linked to serious human-rights violations in the fight against the rebels.
Colombia's troubles could spill across its borders toward the Venezuelan oil fields, the United States' chief source of imported petroleum, or into Panama, home to the vital Panama Canal.
Faced with a string of rebel victories, including a devastating ambush of Colombian troops in March, U.S. generals have embarked on an ambitious effort to help reorganize the Colombian army.
