Prodded insistently by Gilman and a small group of other powerful Republican lawmakers, the administration recently announced what the acting State Department anti-narcotics chief, Rand Beers, called ``an ambitious new strategy to attack narcotics trafficking in Colombia on all fronts.''
Military officials including Wilhelm, the commander in chief of the U.S. Southern Command, said drug profits and other income are financing the guerrillas' purchase of more and perhaps more sophisticated communications equipment and weaponry.
Additionally, a small group of Southern Command analysts have embarked on a side-by-side comparison of Colombia's experience with that of Peru, where leftist guerrillas protected coca growers for years.
Guerrillas    Rebels and Traffickers in a `Coca Republic'    Administration officials say there is no sure way to keep the anti-drug battle from running into the guerrillas, given what has taken place over the last couple of years.
Beers, who helped draft the Andean strategy 10 years ago, said the State Department would start by adding at least $21 million to its anti-drug aid program to Colombia this year.
Colombian military officials have also said they would like to buy armored attack MH-1 Cobra helicopters, and a Defense Department official predicted that the Pentagon would support such a request.
Wilhelm has since worked with Colombian commanders on a sweeping overhaul of the armed forces, and ordered a ``comprehensive'' review of U.S. training.
Wilhelm, the Southern Command chief, insisted that the United States was not sending the sort of advisers that it once stationed with military units in countries like El Salvador and Vietnam.
In response to an aggressive government campaign against coca cultivation and transportation in neighboring Peru, the officials say, the traffickers have joined some major rebel fronts to create a virtual coca republic.
In March, a force of 400 to 600 FARC guerrillas crushed an army unit near the southern village of Billar, killing 67 soldiers and capturing about 30 more, according to Pentagon figures.
