With his speakership on the line, Gingrich eventually agreed to admit that he violated ethics rules by providing false and misleading statements to the committee about the involvement of GOPAC, the political action committee he once led, in the development of a college course he taught in Georgia.
WASHINGTON _ House Speaker Newt Gingrich made his second $50,000 payment Monday toward the $300,000 he owes taxpayers in connection with his violation of House ethics rules last year.
While final payment will mark the end of this ethics case, the House ethics committee still has a pending complaint to resolve involving Gingrich.
The installment plan was the culmination of a lengthy investigation by the House ethics committee into the partisan political role of tax-exempt, not-for-profit organizations with close ties to, or directly controlled by, Gingrich.
In his report to the committee, James Cole, the lawyer hired by the committee to lead the investigation, said, ``In addition, the violation does not represent only a single instance of reckless conduct.
Along with a reprimand from his colleagues in the House, Gingrich agreed to a $300,000 sanction, roughly equal to the cost of the investigative work that was required after the speaker provided the false information to the committee.
And the Internal Revenue Service is investigating whether the tax-exempt organizations violated their non-profit status by helping fund political activities, including the speaker's college course.
Bob Dole, the 1996 Republican presidential nominee, has agreed to lend Gingrich $150,000 for the last payment, but Gingrich has yet to decide whether to take the loan, Weinstein said.
The penalty was extraordinary in that marked the first-ever ethics punishment of a sitting speaker, but it was sufficiently lenient that Gingrich could continue to serve as speaker.
But in his recent book, ``Lessons Learned the Hard Way,'' Gingrich blamed his lawyers for most of the problem, suggesting that their sloppy work and his lack of attention to their work accounted for his troubles.
