NEW YORK _ Broadening their efforts to limit what they see as dangerous congestion on New York City's sidewalks, city officials said Monday that their vending ban would include not only food carts but also street sales of books, baseball cards, art, T-shirts and all other goods.
City Councilman Anthony Weiner, a Brooklyn Democrat who has called for the abolition of the Sidewalk Vendor Review Panel, said the broad enforcement was ``intellectually consistent'' on the part of the administration but that it put Giuliani in a potential ``legal thicket.''
``Mayor Giuliani's war on vendors is virtually eliminating free expression from large areas of New York City's public streets.''
But Earl Andrews Jr., chairman of the city's Sidewalk Vendor Review Panel, which approved the 144-block ban, said the restrictions approved by the panel applied to vendors of both food and general merchandise, and thus covered artists and those who sell printed matter.
Robert Lederman, president of Artists' Response to Illegal State Tactics, said the wider ban would mean that ``fundamental elements of free speech and alternative expression'' would be ``the next casualty in the mayor's quality of life campaign.''
``If a street is congested, it's going to be congested, whether it's a food vendor or a general vendor,'' said Andrews, who is commissioner of the Department of Business Services.
Asked whether the regulations would also apply to book vendors, the mayor said: ``The rules apply to food vendors.
Street artists, who have been persistent critics of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, said they would join the food vendors in a demonstration that is to begin at 9 a.m. Wednesday in City Hall Park, to be followed with a lunchtime march to Wall Street and back.
Gabriel Taussig, the chief of the administrative law division of the city's Law Department, said peddlers of books and other printed matter, including collectors' cards, were exempt from city regulations requiring vendors to be licensed.
The administration officials were elaborating on comments that Giuliani had made at a news conference earlier Monday, when he had seemed to doubt whether the city could impose the same restrictions on book merchants that it would impose on food carts.
