&QL;    Now, however, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and Alaska Airlines are equipping their planes with a machine that is a combination heart monitor and defibrillator _ that is, a device that produces an EKG, and one that shocks the heart back into normal rhythm if necessary.
Alaska Airlines said in February that it would equip all its planes, and Delta said in January that by 2000 all its flights, including commuter flights, would carry the Forerunner and enhanced medical kits.
The device is already credited with saving one passenger's life, on a flight from Dallas to Mexico City on Feb. 18, and has helped many other times to determine whether a stricken passenger was, in fact, having a heart attack.
The FAA does not keep statistics, but the Air Transport Association, the trade group of the big airlines, asked its members to keep track during 1996, and it counted 141 heart attacks and 433 cases of passengers complaining of chest pain.
Among the 578 million passengers that year, there were 10,500 medical incidents _ one for each 55,000 passengers, or one for each 780 flights.
&QL;    After paddles are applied to a patient's chest, the device senses electrical currents from the heart and decides whether a heart attack is, in fact, in progress, and whether defibrillation is needed.
&QL;    As the big airlines adopt the policy, Congress has directed the Federal Aviation Administration to study whether all airlines should be required to carry more medical equipment.
&QL;    American has to divert a plane for medical reasons about 150 times a year, Hotard said, or about one flight in 5,400.
&QL;    At American, John Hotard, a spokesman, said that since his company began putting the Forerunners on its planes about a year ago, they had been used 49 times, but in only three cases did the Forerunner decide that shocks were needed.
&QL;    While the drugs and the heart devices may help sick patients, they can also help the airlines and all the other passengers, aviation experts say.
