``There's a lot of anxiety amongst the official Republican political class to see that these guys are aboard,'' says Mark Silk, director of the Center for the Study of Religion in Political Life at Trinity College in Hartford, Conn.    ``The real concern about people like Dobson and Bauer is not an interest in what they can do positively, it is the fear of what they can do negatively.''
``We urge the Republican leadership to abandon their plans to follow Bauer and Dobson to sure electoral defeat and instead develop a message to the fiscal conservative voters who dominate the center of the American electorate,'' wrote Mark Miller of the Republican Leadership Council.
``I believe a Republican meltdown is preferable to ... the present betrayal of the moral agenda,'' wrote Dobson.
James Dobson, Gary Bauer and John Ashcroft are the vanguard of a new conservative Christian movement that is marching on Washington.
But they feel that the party _ Reagan included _ scorned them, refusing to adopt their key demands, and that the Republican party's candidate in the 1996 Presidential race, Robert Dole, betrayed the cause.
In a trenchant analysis of the party's ills in the Atlantic Monthly, Christopher Caldwell, a conservative, argues that the party, caught between economic conservatives, the religious right and its moderate wing, will tear itself apart.
But there is a community within a community _ what conservative thinker William Kristol calls a ``parallel universe'' _ a flourishing world of radio stations, syndicated columns and newsletters.
While the Dobson and Bauer candidates have not been that successful, they have driven wedges into cracks that were already opening up within the Right.
But his righteous partners are already having a political impact, backing candidates in Republican primaries for this year's Congressional races with their words and their cash, which in turn has triggered conflicts among different factions within the party.
The social conservatives in the Republican Party are finding it increasingly hard to get on with the economic conservatives, and the historic marriage which Reagan helped to forge between them and the moderates is on the rocks.
