In Maryland, the conservative Eastern Shore has chafed under state laws on gun control and wetlands preservation, but ``the straw that broke the camel's back,'' said State senator Richard L. Colburn, a Republican, was the response when a toxic microbe killed thousands of fish in Chesapeake Bay last year.
In Maine, State Representative Henry Joy, a Republican who introduced the secession study bill, said forest and land regulations were restricting economic growth in northern Maine.
Rep. Collin Peterson, the Democrat who introduced the constitutional amendment in Minnesota, said the 100 residents of the Northwest Angle didn't really want to leave the country _ only to solve their problems with Ontario over regulation of the Lake of the Woods, which dips into Minnesota.
Colburn wants to call the new state Delmarva (after the peninsula shared by Delaware and Virginia), and said it would have no sales tax, loose environmental regulation and a blue flag with one star like the Bonnie Blue flown by some southern states in the Civil War.
The effort gained ground in October with a law that bars city councils from vetoing secession initiatives, though there are still hurdles: petition signatures of 25 percent of registered voters, a viability study and a majority vote for secession in both the Valley and Los Angeles.
``Even without Peconic County being formed, we have seen a lot of attention,'' said Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele Jr., a Republican from Sag Harbor, N.Y., who twice introduced legislation asking for a binding referendum on forming a new county, to no avail.
``People feel that they're not getting a fair shake in the existing arrangements,'' said Richard Briffault, a professor at Columbia University Law School who has written about legal issues in secession but is neutral on its desirability.
``Small municipalities can control things like schools, zoning and other functions, and form compacts with other communities for other services, like fire departments,'' Husock said.
Last month in New York, the rural East End of Long Island filed suit, trying to force the State Legislature to allow it to secede from Suffolk County and form Peconic County.
In Maine, a legislator submitted a bill last year seeking to study the feasibility of making northern Maine the 51st state.
