WASHINGTON _ President Clinton's lawyers are considering whether to drop his planned appeal of a federal judge's rejection of his claims of executive privilege in the investigation into his relationship with a former intern, people familiar with their deliberations said on Sunday night.
Under this new legal strategy, Clinton would continue to appeal some of Starr's questioning, but only by invoking his attorney-client privilege, Clinton's allies said on Sunday night.
White House lawyers could argue that Clinton's use of the attorney-client privilege raised no constitutional issues and therefore would not require the extraordinary kind of accelerated review that Starr has requested.
All along, the White House has insisted that it was simply out to uphold the principle that the president is entitled to an executive privilege, a position that Judge Johnson upheld even as she ruled that in this instance Starr's need pursue his investigation outweighed that privilege.
By dropping the appeal of executive privilege altogether, the White House would avoid that fight, without depriving the president of the shield of attorney-client privilege.
The lawyers planned to make a final decision Monday, administration officials said, in time to meet a 4:30 p.m. deadline imposed by the Supreme Court for a response to a request by Kenneth Starr, the independent prosecutor, to speed up the appeals process.
Starr has asked the Supreme Court to short-circuit the normal appellate process and consider a White House appeal right away.
His request put the White House in the difficult position of possibly opposing such an expedited review, a move that officials acknowledged would lend weight to criticism that Clinton was trying to impede the investigation.
Clinton has invoked the privileges to prevent Starr from compelling testimony from two senior aides, Sidney Blumenthal, a senior communications adviser, and Bruce Lindsey, the deputy White House counsel.
Jim Kennedy, a White House spokesman, said, ``No final decision is expected until the attorneys meet at least one more time, most likely tomorrow morning.''
