The Direct Marketing Association offers its Mail Preference Service and Telephone Preference Service, which removes your name from the mail and telemarketing lists of its members, most of whom are major national marketers.
The Fair Credit Reporting Act allows you to ``opt out'' of lists of consumers that credit bureaus provide to banks, retailers, credit card companies and other firms that intend to make unsolicited offers of credit by mail or phone.
There are two major ``shotgun'' actions you can take that are your best bets for substantially reducing unwanted mail promotions and telemarketing calls: Contact the Direct Marketing Association and the three major credit bureaus.
This will not stop mail or calls from charities or small marketers who are not DMA members, but it will stop a major portion of direct mail solicitations and telemarketing calls.
Numerous telemarketers and direct mail firms, including some mail order catalogs and magazines, sell, rent or ``share'' their lists.
One final help in stopping telemarketing calls is the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, which requires telemarketers to maintain ``don't call'' lists of customers who don't want to be called.
If you are a customer of one mail order company, you are likely to receive promotions from other mail order companies.
Every time you provide your name and address to buy a product or service, including many bank credit card purchases, there's a good chance you eventually will be added to other marketing lists.
A lot of information about individuals is part of the public record that's available to anyone, and there's nothing you can do to stop marketers from gathering such information, which includes home sales and birth, marriage and death records.
Second _ and this is something you likely will have to do repeatedly _ contact organizations you join, magazines you subscribe to, charities you support, your credit card issuers and other creditors and ask them to delete your name from lists they might rent or sell to other merchants and organizations.
