Mary Nell Lehnhard, senior vice president of the association representing the country's Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans, points to provisions in several bills and the report of President Clinton's commission that would require plans to track medical treatments.
Ms. Lehnhard's point is not that looser forms of managed care offer shoddy health care; some have stellar quality improvement programs.
What the proponents have in mind is requiring health plans to reveal, for example, how many of its youngsters receive vaccinations, how many diabetics are checked for high blood pressure and how many coronary patients take beta blockers to prevent recurrent attacks.
But claims data would not show how many of these diabetics had dangerously high blood pressure, or how many women succumbed to breast cancer because the disease was diagnosed late.
Candidates this fall for the Senate and House as well as governor and state attorney general are rallying behind legislation percolating in Congress and in state legislatures that promises to force HMOs to pay for more care, to expand patient choice and to require health plans to document how well they treat patients.
The bills would tighten the grip of managed care because they impose elaborate record-keeping requirements on the health plans, aimed at making them publicly accountable for how well they prevent, treat and cure illness.
The bills could also wipe out old-fashioned fee-for-service health insurance, which puts medical choices completely in the hands of doctors and patients.
And any problems that managed care plans face in tracking treatment outcomes would be that much worse for fee-for-service plans, which impose virtually no limits on where their enrollees seek treatment.
For example, the easiest way for plans to guarantee that each of its diabetics is checked for high blood pressure is to restrict enrollees to doctors the plan knows routinely perform the right tests.
Patients' rights have broad support among health policy experts who say they will make insurance companies accountable for the quality of care they provide.
