The shuttle-Mir program, which began in 1994 with Russian astronauts' joining the crews on shuttle missions and a shuttle flying around the Russian station, was billed as the first phase of a program leading to building the planned international space station.
``NASA is expert at flying 10- to 14-day shuttle missions, but operating a space station is very different,'' said Jim Van Laak, deputy director of the shuttle-Mir program, ``It wasn't until we began operating on Mir that we began to appreciate the subtleties of this.
``It's hard to imagine beginning the international space station without what we've learned from shuttle-Mir,'' Culbertson said in an interview, ``We learned that there was a lot we didn't know.
Frank Culbertson Jr., an astronaut who directs the shuttle-Mir program for NASA, says the program provided not only experience in long-duration space flight and research, but also invaluable lessons on how to run a multinational space station.
``The goals were to get engineering and operational experience, and that's what we got,'' Culbertson said of the program, which he said cost about $370 million, not counting shuttle flights to and from Mir.
``We learned some critical things, such as how to work with the Russians to jointly control a space station and the effects of long-term flight on people, but we didn't need Mir to teach us to address some safety issues more seriously,'' Oberg said.
``It cost us very little to look over Russian shoulders and learn how to _ and not how to in some cases _ run a space station,'' said Thagard, who spent 115 days aboard Mir starting on March 14, 1995.
The program was part of a $400 million, four-year agreement signed by NASA in 1994 to compensate Russia for seven shuttle-Mir docking missions for research and for financing a $100 million module for the proposed international station.
Several powerful members of Congress, including space program supporters like as Rep. James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., who heads the science committee, said the United States had learned enough from having five astronauts stay aboard Mir for periods of four months or longer and that the last two visits should be canceled.
Logsdon said the shuttle-Mir program produced valuable information and experience for NASA at a bargain price, but it was time to end it and start building the next space station.
