``They're guarding drugs, they're moving drugs, they're growing drugs,'' the White House drug-policy director, Gen. Barry McCaffrey, said in 1996, adding that he was ``uneasy'' with U.S. efforts to restrict Colombia's use of advanced UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters that it was then buying from the United States.
One instance of the vague definition of ``counter drug'' preparation are the courses that U.S. Army trainers, drawn largely from the 7th Special Forces Group at Fort Bragg, N.C., often lead in the Pentagon's Joint Combined Exchange Training, or J-Cet program.
Beginning in 1994, Congress required the Clinton administration to verify that U.S. military aid would go only to troops that ``primarily'' carried out anti-drug operations.
Unlike the early stages of the civil war in El Salvador, when whole battalions were flown to U.S. bases for training, the Pentagon's efforts to overhaul Colombian forces have been conducted mainly in Colombia by small teams of special-forces trainers.
When the U.S. Embassy in Bogota reviewed the matter in 1994, officials said they discovered that anti-drug aid had gone to seven Colombian brigades and seven battalions that had been implicated in abuses or linked to right-wing paramilitary groups that had killed civilians.
U.S. officials believed that with global security threats shifting after the Soviet Union's demise, soldiers and intelligence agents could find a worthy new adversary in the bosses of Colombia's cocaine trade.
Military sales to Colombia jumped from $21.9 million to $75 million over the same period, largely on the Colombian army's purchase of the six Blackhawks.
But some U.S.-trained forces have continued to be accused of abuses, and Colombian prosecutors are investigating reports that a massacre of suspected rebel sympathizers last year around the southern village of Mapiripan was carried out by a paramilitary squad flown into the nearby military air field at San Jose de Guaviare, the staging base for U.S.-supported anti-drug operations in the region.
Background    From 1990, Aid Rose to Highest in Region    Since the end of the Cold War and the waning of civil conflicts elsewhere, Colombia has emerged as the largest recipient of U.S. military assistance in the Western hemisphere.
Cesar Gaviria, then Colombia's president, attacked the holdouts as ``deranged fanatics who have not read in the newspapers the sorry story of the end of communist totalitarianism.''
