In papers filed with the Supreme Court on Monday, White House lawyers argued that Clinton's use of the attorney-client privilege raised no pressing constitutional issues and therefore did not require the extraordinary step of expedited review.
But he will continue to impede Starr's investigation into his relationship with Monica Lewinsky by pursuing attorney-client privilege as a reason to challenge, through normal judicial review, some of Starr's efforts to question Bruce Lindsey, a deputy White House counsel.
The New York Times said in an editorial on Tuesday, June 2:    The latest maneuvering by the White House to avoid accelerated Supreme Court review of its flimsy privilege claims should not deter the justices from grabbing the case.
Circuit Court of Appeals a year ago in rebuffing a similar White House claim that Hillary Clinton's conversations with government lawyers about personal Whitewater matters fell under attorney-client privilege.
In an effort to delay the Supreme Court from entering the fray and to avoid being linked in history with Richard Nixon's Watergate strategy, President Clinton has dropped his reliance on claims of executive privilege to protect two aides from testifying about issues being probed by Starr.
Starr's brief asking for expedited Supreme Court review called the case ``of high moment,'' and underscored the nation's interest in having it resolved quickly.
The nation needs a definitive resolution of the issues that have been raised by the White House to impede the investigation by independent counsel Kenneth Starr.
By taking the case quickly, the court could cut through the barrage of privilege claims that have dragged out the investigation and thus clogged the functioning of the government.
U.S. District Judge Norma Holloway Johnson acknowledged as much when she rejected Clinton's attorney-client privilege claim regarding Lindsey, applying essentially the same reasoning that she did in turning down the claims of executive privilege.
Although Judge Johnson reached the right conclusions, the Supreme Court could usefully resolve differences between her reasoning and that used by the 8th U.S.
