``In a time of prosperity, people can be concerned with other issues _ as now they are about education _ and rightly so,'' said Wilson, a Republican who in his re-election campaign four years ago devoted much of his time to staving off attacks about his stewardship of the economy.
In the San Francisco area, for instance, Baldassare said his polling shows that voters are ``most satisfied'' with their jobs and ``most negative about traffic.''
Now, according to polling by the Public Policy Institute of California, 6 out of 10 voters in this state think the economy is in excellent or good shape, and many say their own finances have improved, and expect them to improve even more next year.
Because there is no longer a premium on candidates with economic know-how, the unflagging economy has posed a particular problem for two wealthy candidates here who have presented themselves as outsiders from the business world: Alfred Checchi, the former co-chairman of Northwest Airlines who is seeking the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, and Darrell Issa, a car alarm entrepreneur who is seeking the Republican nomination to take on senator Boxer.
``It's a world of difference in terms of voter attitudes this year,'' said Mark Baldassare, senior fellow at the Public Policy Institute of California.
With California's economy soaring _ and a state surplus projected at $4.4 billion _ the one time politicians sounded exercised about the subject was when they groused that unemployment was so low that there was a shortage of workers to collect signatures to put initiatives on the ballot.
With pocketbook appeals largely off the table, the issue of education _ which was entirely neglected four years ago _ came to the fore, not only in a ballot initiative that would essentially eliminate bilingual education, but also in a broader debate over how to improve California's public schools.
LOS ANGELES _ The most striking thing about the primary election campaigns here, from the candidates' debate to the deluge of 30-second television commercials and the speeches on the stump, was that the topic that dominated California politics for years rarely surfaced: the economy.
``For the first time in 30 years, we passed a balanced budget with a heart,'' said Sen. Barbara Boxer, a Democrat seeking re-election, at a luncheon in San Francisco.
So one guy paid the penalty for a bad economy as an incumbent and the other guy enjoyed the benefits of a good one.''
