Other winners: Ida Applebroog, painter, New York, N.Y.; Ellen Barry, director of Legal Services for Prisoners with Children, Oakland, Calif.; Linda Bierds, poet, Bainbridge Island, Wash.; John Carlstrom, experimental astrophysicist, Chicago; Mike Davis, historian, Pasadena, Calif., Avner Greif, economist, Stanford, Calif.; Kun-Liang Guan, biochemist, Ann Arbor, Mich.; Gary Hill, video artist, Seattle; Edward Hirsch, poet and essayist, Houston; Ayesha Jalal, historian, New York, N.Y.; Charles Johnson, novelist, short story writer, essayist, cartoonist and screenwriter, Seattle; Leah Krubitzer, neuroscientist, Davis, Calif.; Stewart Kwoh, attorney and human rights leader, Los Angeles; Charles Lewis, founder and executive director of the Center for Public Integrity, a nonprofit, nonpartisan investigative journalism organization, Alexandria, Va.; William McDonald, cattle rancher and leader in effort to make ranching more ecologically responsible, Douglas, Ariz.; Peter Miller, historian, Berlin; Don Mitchell, cultural geographer, Syracuse, N.Y.; Rebecca Nelson, plant pathologist, Lima; Elinor Ochs, linguistic anthropologist, Pacific Palisades, Calif.; Ishmael Reed, literary innovator in a variety of genres, Oakland, Calif.; Benjamin Santer, atmospheric scientist, Livermore, Calif.; Dorothy Q. Thomas, human rights activist, New York, N.Y.; and Leonard Zeskind, researcher on contemporary white supremacist movements in the United States and abroad, Kansas City, Mo.
Only California and New York had more MacArthur Fellows than Massachusetts this year, foundation officials said, and more than 50 of the 531 past and present grant winners now live in Massachusetts.
Internet pioneer Timothy Berners-Lee of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Brandeis University religion professor Bernadette Brooten, University of Massachusetts-Amherst, economist Nancy Folbre, and Karl Sims of Genetic Arts Inc. in Cambridge received surprise phone calls last week telling them they had won a fellowship.
Four Massachusetts residents _ including the inventor of the Internet's World Wide Web _ were among the 29 winners of prestigious ``genius grants'' from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, the philanthropy announced Monday.
``It's really a quest for the most extraordinary among us,'' said Daniel Socolow, director of the MacArthur Fellows Program.
Berners-Lee, 43 and principal research scientist at MIT's Laboratory for Computer Science, helped transform the Internet from a tool for computer experts to the world's most powerful new information medium.
Nancy Folbre, 45, of Montague said she expected to be rejected for an unrelated grant application when MacArthur Foundation president Adele Simmons told her she would receive $280,000 over the next five years.
MacArthur officials said they were impressed with Folbre's research into the work role of family members and the scarcity of ``caring labor'' to raise children, care for elders, and fill other non-market jobs.
She had a hard time even telling me about it'' because she was so surprised, said Folbre's husband, Bob Dworak, who likened the call from Simmons to a visit from Ed McMahon of the Publishers' Clearinghouse contest.
He developed the uniform resource locator system that allows Internet users to search for documents, and he set up the first web server to post information on the Internet.
