If the standard House rules applied, supporters of a bill sponsored by Representatives Christopher Shays, a Connecticut Republican, and Martin T. Meehan, a Lowell Democrat, said they would have enough votes to pass the overhaul measure and send it to the Senate.
Faced with newly crafted House procedures for considering the campaign finance issue _ rules the House parliamentarian described as ``unheard of'' in recent history _ advocates for overhauling the system began waging a grass-roots effort last week to persuade dozens of additional House members to form a super majority they may need to overcome the obstacle.
As a consequence, for example, 300 House members could vote for the Shays-Meehan plan, but if 301 members voted for a rival proposal to create a commission to study the issue for a year, the Shays-Meehan measure would die.
The Shays-Meehan plan is nearly identical to a bill that won majority support in the Senate last year but died when backers could not muster the 60 votes needed to overcome a Republican filibuster.
But with a simple majority no longer enough to guarantee their bill's passing the House, Shays, Meehan, and their supporters are scurrying to win over additional House members and to persuade all their backers to vote against every other proposal but theirs.
_A bill sponsored by Representative Charles Bass, a New Hampshire Republican, that is identical to Shays-Meehan except that it includes a ``paycheck protection'' provision dealing with how unions use members' dues for political spending.
_A bipartisan measure sponsored by House freshmen that would ban most ``soft money'' and take less-aggressive steps than Shays-Meehan in overhauling other areas of the campaign finance system.
Meanwhile, Bass, who has been a prime target of the grass-roots campaign because he led an effort in the New Hampshire Legislature to overhaul the state's campaign finance system, has yet to decide how vigorously he will push his alternative.
Williams said Tierney might also withdraw his bill, which would remove any risk of its displacing the Shays-Meehan plan.
The rules, which have sent confused lawmakers scurrying to House parliamentarian Charles Johnson for guidance, effectively create a legislative free-for-all among every coalition trying to improve the campaign finance system.
