As seen from Buckingham Palace, Spencer's latest offense has been to try to woo the two young princes away from their father _ just as he implicitly pledged to do when he declared at the funeral: ``We, your blood family will do all we can to continue in the imaginative and loving way in which you (Diana) were steering these two exceptional young men so that their souls are not simply immersed by duty and tradition, but can sing openly as you had planned.''
When the boys were invited to spend their summer vacation with Diana's elder sister, Sarah McCorquodale, and her family, Charles and the queen regarded the proposal as an attempt to separate William and Harry from their father close to the anniversary of their mother's death, according to Whitaker.
According to Rachel Tisdale, the author of several books on the royal family, ``(Spencer's) criticism of the fund has received a cold reception from the public and enabled the royals discreetly to throw their support behind the fund's continuation.
PARIS _ Nine months after her death in a car crash, Princess Diana remains a figure of controversy as the British royal family and her brother, Earl Spencer, feud over her spiritual legacy.
They blame Earl Spencer for deliberately exacerbating the wave of national hostility toward the royal family at the time of the funeral, which briefly threatened to destabilize the 1,000-year-old monarchy.
Although Queen Elizabeth II and Diana's former husband, Prince Charles, have skillfully retrieved some of the popularity they lost when the princess died, their bitter feelings toward the Spencers are as strong as ever, Whitaker noted.
Whitaker quoted a ``Buckingham Palace elder'' as saying that Spencer's behavior at the funeral ``will never be forgotten or forgiven.
At the center of the squabble are her two adolescent sons, Princes William and Henry, over whom her brother claimed special protective rights in an emotional and angry oration at Diana's funeral last September in Westminster Abbey.
``(William and Henry) have unwittingly been drawn into a destructive battle between the Windsors and the Spencers,'' according to James Whitaker, a veteran reporter on the royals, writing in Britain's Spectator magazine.
The earl may also have committed a serious blunder by recently calling for the Diana Memorial Fund to be wound up, charging that it has sponsored several unworthy enterprises, thus doing harm to her memory.
