One of them, Dorothy Patterson, wife of Southeastern Seminary President Paige Patterson, is likely to be the first lady of the convention since her husband is expected to be elected its president.
In presenting the proposal to the Southern Baptist Convention next month, the committee will also present a commentary that ``will be a useful tool for those outside our faith who seek to comprehend Baptist beliefs,'' said committee Chairman Anthony Jordan, executive director of the Baptist General Convention of Oklahoma.
``In fact, in the definition of marriage given in the first sentence _ one man, one woman for life _ is probably the most significant thing in the statement,'' he said.
The other woman on the committee is Mary Moiler, wife of Southern Baptist Seminary President Albert Moiler, a former editor of Georgia's Baptist newspaper, The Christian Index.
``I'm very pleased at this time, when the family is under such an assault and attack from every quarter, that Southern Baptists have decided to go back to their biblical roots, determine what God says about the family, and include that in their statement to the word .
Southern Baptists, meeting in the land of the Latter-day Saints, will be asked to adopt a new denominational statement on marriage, children and the family.
The statement, which limits sexual expression to marriage between a man and a woman and encourages wives to be submissive to their husbands, was drafted by a seven-member committee that included the wives of two Baptist seminary presidents.
``The statement forgot Jesus and made June Cleaver a biblical model for motherhood,'' said Robert Parium, executive director of the Baptist Center for Ethics in Nashville.
Her husband acknowledged in an interview with The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that the statement makes clear the convention's stance against homosexuality.
If approved at the annual meeting in Salt Lake City June 11-13, the statement will be added to the Baptist Faith and Message, a 35-year-old document stating what Southern Baptists believe.
