Far more accurate than other monitoring devices like medication diaries or blood levels of drugs, the bottle caps can tell doctors if ``the drug failed the patient, or the patient failed to take the drug,'' Ms. Cramer said.
``People in general take about 75 percent of their medications as prescribed,'' said Joyce Cramer, a medical researcher at Yale University and an authority on drug-taking behavior.
Some drugs are more ``forgiving'' than others, said Dr. John Urquhart, a physician and professor of pharmacoepidemiology at Maastricht University in Maastricht, the Netherlands, who is one of the world's experts in medication-taking behavior.
At the AIDS clinic at Yale-New Haven Hospital, every patient is supplied with a large rectangular pillbox whose 28 compartments can hold a week's worth of medications to be taken several times a day, said Dr. Gerald Friedland, a professor of medicine at Yale who directs the AIDS program.
And with increased cost consciousness has come a new appreciation of the problem of ``noncompliance,'' as medicine has labeled the phenomenon of skipping some doses, doubling up on others, forgetting to refill at the end of the month, or taking a few of a family member's antibiotics on the chance they will work better than the ones prescribed.
``It's a part of a diagnostic evaluation'' _ an objective reflection of the patient's medical condition just like a blood test.
And the flip side of the equation has been vividly illustrated by the medications for tuberculosis and AIDS: they may actually damage a patient's health when taken improperly, by inducing drug-resistant disease that may be passed on to others and cannot be treated at all.
In fact, improving medication-taking behavior may be one of the few arenas in health care today where widely disparate interest groups _ including medical researchers, patient advocates, drug companies, public health authorities and HMO executives _ share a goal.
``What's special about HIV infection is the sheer complexity of the medications,'' Friedland said.
Patients with serious diseases who are veterans at taking medication _ cardiac-transplant patients, for instance _ are usually better pill takers than those with silent conditions like high blood pressure, Urquhart said.
