Yet few problems of international relations have been so intractable over the last half-century as the continuing cold war on the Korean Peninsula _ President Clinton has called the jagged ``demilitarized zone'' between the two Koreas ``the scariest place on earth'' _ and Kim said that one key purpose of his visit to the United States is ``to win a more flexible stance in our two countries' dealings with North Korea.''
SEOUL, South Korea _ In an effort to ease half a century of enmities on the Korean Peninsula, President Kim Dae-jung of South Korea called on Monday for the United States and other Western countries to end sanctions against North Korea and to show greater flexibility in dealing with it.
Kim's nine-day visit to the United States beginning on Saturday will not focus only on relations with North Korea but also on a broad array of economic, cultural and political issues, such as efforts to reassure U.S. investors about South Korea's business prospects.
``I would like to see improvement in relations between Japan and North Korea and in fact between the rest of the Western world and North Korea,'' Kim said.
``It would be desirable for the United States to ease its economic sanctions on North Korea,'' Kim said.
Korean officials and Western diplomats said that they did not expect Kim's visit to the United States to result in any landmark new agreements, but rather to affirm an already strong relationship and to give Kim a chance to try to rebuild international confidence in the tattered Korean economy.
``It's an opportunity for him and for us to publicly show support for his efforts to bring Korea out of this morass, to solidify the security relationship and to commend Kim Dae Jung for embracing democracy and making the tough choices to repair the economy,'' said Stephen Bosworth, the U.S. ambassador to Seoul.
Particularly since 1994, when the United States and North Korea agreed to improve ties as part of a pact to end the North's suspected nuclear weapons program, some U.S. officials _ most notably James Laney, a former U.S. ambassador to South Korea _ have argued for a policy of greater engagement with the North.
``As we stick to this tolerance on our part, with such a flexible approach, then perhaps not in the near term but in the long run we'll be able to see changes in North Korea's attitude,'' Kim said.
Kim said that when he makes a state visit to Washington next week, which will include an address to a joint session of Congress, he will urge the United States to give up its economic sanctions against North Korea.
