&UR; HEALTH PAGE &LR;    INTIMATE-EXAMS-HEALTH (Undated) _ In medical school programs in New York and around the country ``genital teaching associates'' use their bodies as models to teach breast, pelvic and genital-urinary exam techniques to medical students, residents and even doctors.
SCI-THORIUM-POWER (Undated) _ Now that India has shown the world that it could quietly purify enough plutonium for the five nuclear devices it detonated recently _ and probably enough for many more _ attention is turning to how to divorce nuclear weapons from nuclear power plants.
The New York Times News Service plans the following  &UR; ScienceTimes &LR;  stories for papers of Tuesday, June 2:    Photos, where indicated, are being sent to NYT photo clients.
After being a focus of U.S. manned space activity for the past three years, stays on Mir are about to join Gemini capsules and Saturn rockets as historical artifacts of the nation's space program.
The shuttle Discovery is scheduled to dock with Mir later this week and retrieve astronaut Andrew Thomas, the last of seven American to work on the station in the last three years.
&UR; STANDARD FEATURES &LR;    SCI-COMPUTER-COLUMN (Undated) _ Outlook 98, the latest version of Microsoft's ambitious calendar, E-mail and address book package, shows loads of potential, but way too many problems.
BRODY-HEALTH (Undated) _ People with healthier habits not only live longer, they live better, experiencing only half as much chronic disability as their less-prudent age mates, a study published in The New England Journal of Medicine clearly showed.
Study after study over the last 20 years has shown that misuse of prescription drugs is a worldwide epidemic every bit as dangerous and costly as an actual medical illness.
It was tagged ``America's other drug problem'' when researchers consistently found it responsible for 10 to 25 percent of hospital and nursing home admissions studied.
Since being introduced in the 1970s, teaching associate programs have expanded to nearly half the nation's medical schools, if not more.
