The president's political advisers played no part in the discussions that led to the legal pleading filed with the Supreme Court late Monday afternoon, several White House aides said.
Ruff, the White House counsel, said at a briefing for reporters that Monday's legal filing was about constitutional imperatives and presidential prerogatives _ and nothing more.
Lindsey has testified on numerous occasions in the Whitewater matter and other White House investigations and he retains the confidence of the president, White House officials noted.
The central participants in the weekend's discussion were Ruff, David Kendall, the president's personal attorney, W. Neil Eggleston, an outside expert on executive privilege claims, and Mickey Kantor, a longtime friend of the Clintons and the manager of the president's 1992 campaign.
A senior White House official said Monday that the decision on the privilege appeal was ``made by lawyers based on the law and based on principles.''
They insisted that the White House is seeking to preserve the president's right to confidential advice from his closest aides _ not to bury illegalities beneath a mountain of legal paper.
The calculation appears to be that the president has little to fear from the testimony of Blumenthal, because he was not privy to the most sensitive of the president's discussions on how to respond to accusations that Clinton carried on a sexual affair with a former White House intern, Monica Lewinsky, and then directed her to lie about it.
``Most of the concern I've heard the president and Mr. Ruff raise with respect to this matter is an institutional concern that relates to this president and future presidents,'' said Michael McCurry, the White House spokesman.
With its carefully-calibrated legal response Monday, the White House continued a strategy it has pursued throughout the serpentine Whitewater investigation: Challenge Kenneth Starr, the independent counsel directing the inquiry, at every turn and delay the completion of the investigation in hopes the public will lose interest over time.
Starr won an important victory last month with an order from a federal district court compelling the grand jury testimony of Lindsey and Sidney Blumenthal, a senior White House communications adviser.
