WASHINGTON _ President Clinton, in an effort to avoid a showdown in the Supreme Court, sidestepped a fight Monday over executive privilege to prevent two White House aides from testifying in independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr's investigation of the Monica S. Lewinsky matter.
``The opinion was a good one,'' he said about the White House decision, ``and the law is the law.''
Instead, White House lawyers will prolong their battle with Starr by pursuing Clinton's claim that his conversations with deputy counsel Bruce R. Lindsey are shielded from Starr's inquiry by attorney-client privilege.
Still, several analysts said the White House had clearly made a political calculation in retreating from the executive privilege question, which the Supreme Court last weighed in the Watergate case.
By dropping the executive privilege appeal, White House lawyers said there was no reason for the Supreme Court to act before its upcoming summer recess.
In court papers, Clinton's lawyers tried to block Starr's request for an urgent ruling on attorney-client privilege by arguing the Supreme Court has issued such decisions only in cases of special national interest, such as Watergate, President Dwight D. Eisenhower's seizure of the nation's steel mills during the Korean War, and the Iran-Contra scandal of the 1980s.
Last year, the White House asked the Supreme Court to shield first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton from having to hand over notes of her conversations with presidential lawyers to Starr.
The latest White House strategy was seen as possibly sparing Clinton the embarrassment of oral arguments before the Supreme Court that might prompt comparisons between him and President Richard M. Nixon's effort not to disclose Watergate tapes.
Barrett said the prospect of losing a Supreme Court decision over executive privilege, in the summer's heat, and with its attendant parallels to Watergate, ``was not in the president's best interest.
The White House move, laid out in a Supreme Court motion, was seen as having stymied Starr's request last week that the justices make a rare, urgent ruling in the dispute over testimony by presidential aides.
