SLOATSBURG, N.Y. _ The law people cite most often in this village these days is the one that says precisely what kind of housing is allowed: single-family houses on lots of 40,000 square feet, single-family houses on 30,000 square feet, single-family houses on 15,000 square feet and single-family houses on 10,000 square feet.
``That's where they have decided to raise their children, that's where they made that big investment, and they are not only intent on protecting their investment, they are also getting nostalgic, looking back at grandma's house and grandma's community of single-family houses in a small-town setting _ even if they themselves grew up in much tackier surroundings.''
Every other speaker was opposed: Harrison Bush worried about sewer costs, Dan Simone said the local schools would be destroyed, Rich Gurasser said young people would be squeezed out of town and across the line into Orange County, and Pat Kleese worried about the fate of the bear that occasionally forages for garbage at the end of her road if the Hovnanian project were built up to her lot.
At one site, K. Hovnanian Enterprises has already filed plans for a 340-unit town house project _ on a tract that had been intended for 66 single-family houses _ and it is holding out a sweetener to the town: a sewage treatment plant that would handle both the new housing and most of the Route 17 business district.
More than 1,300 Sloatsburg residents, including 800 registered voters, signed a petition this spring opposing the mayor's plan for a ``floating zone,'' which would allow the Mayor and the Village Trustees to change zoning over a broad reach of the village on their own, bypassing the Zoning Board of Appeals.
Sloatsburg's single-family homes are cradled along the Route 17 corridor just north of the New Jersey line in Rockland County, and in little valleys and hillsides in the Ramapo Mountains, which form the village's western wall.
But as the number of town houses has increased, complaints have grown that town houses clog roads, send more children into local schools than had been promised, depress the value of single-family houses and too frequently become rental units.
They won't say that, but they'll whisper it to you _ they don't want any kind of density that may give you school-age children and they don't want any kind of housing that will generate any more traffic.''
This view puts Mrs. Kern and her allies squarely in the mainstream of a national reaction against high-density row house developments like the one K. Hovnanian Enterprises, the biggest town house developer in the country, hopes to build in Sloatsburg.
As in many many places, Sloatsburg residents opposed to town-house developments said that single-family projects would be fine.
