And through the pages of Michael Knox Beran's ``The Last Patrician'' and Helen O'Donnell's ``A Common Good,'' we can begin to rethink the legacy of a man who was an attorney general by dint of his blood, a senator by dint of his sweat, and a martyr by dint of his countrymen's tears.
While Helen O'Donnell brings us inside Bobby Kennedy's circle, Beran brings us inside Bobby Kennedy's head.
``He reminds liberals of the importance of remaining true to the 19th-century liberalism of Emerson and Lincoln; he teaches them that reforms should help to create self-reliance and self-respect in individuals, not undermine those qualities,'' Beran writes in the very last paragraph of his book, adding: ``He reminds conservatives that any genuine conservatism must be allied to compassion, and that, in their devotion to the principles of a free market, conservatives should not forget their obligations to the less fortunate among us.''
But the purpose of Beran's book-length essay is not to argue that Kennedy was a latter-day Thomas More, a man for all seasons, but to argue that, in his heart and in his head, RFK struggled with the signposts of American politics and sought to find his own way.
O'Donnell's volume covers the high points of the Kennedy era, and through the pages of her book stride such Kennedy insiders as Dave Powers, Steve Smith, Peter Edelman, Richard Goodwin, and, of course, Kenneth O'Donnell, the author's father.
It is 30 years now, and yet with each passing year, 1968 _ the annus horribilis of the American Century _ seems ever more horrible, its strife ever more unsettling, its losses ever more unbearable, its meaning ever more portentous.
O'Donnell, who has carried on her father's legacy of political activism and whose research was actively aided by the Kennedy family, reminds us of how the personal and the political intertwined for the generation she recalls.
The family patriarch, Joseph P. Kennedy, wanted his sons to join an establishment not of Henry Adams and Henry James (a little on the effete side) but of Theodore Roosevelt and Franklin Roosevelt _ muscular, masculine, what Beran calls ``an aristocracy of action and power.''
``On the contrary, he hoped that a strong community would attract private investment, and that this investment would in turn lead to the creation of jobs that gave purpose and meaning to the lives of the community's citizens.''
At the heart of Beran's thesis is the notion that the United States was governed through much of the century by an American establishment that suffered its own identity crisis.
