The new management plan, which would not require congressional approval,    would prevent development of roads and buildings, prohibit motorized vehicles and require that more than 120 miles of old roads be turned into trails or restored to their natural condition.
The Park Service plan released Monday also calls for 29,820 acres _ the Colorado River that flows for 277 miles through the park, and its shorelines _ to be designated as proposed wilderness, and that studies be done to include the river in the na tion's ``Wild and Scenic'' river program.
Designated campsites w ould be established and natural vegetation restored at several backcountry sites where visitors now camp wherever they please: Deer Creek, Cape Final, Point Sublime, Fire Point, Swamp Point and Pasture Wash.    Campsites and trails would be reh abilitated at Horseshoe Mesa, Hermit Creek, Monument Creek and Upper Tapeats.
That would inclu de nearly all of the Canyon's inner gorges, most of the North Rim, and the South Rim west of Hermit's Rest.
The proposed wildernes s management plan covers virtually the entire park except for the major trails (Bright Angel and Kaibab) that cross the canyon from the South Rim to the North Rim.
Among the roads that would be converted to trails are more tha n 40 miles of former fire roads along the North Rim.
The ``wild and scenic'' designation, which could be done by Congress or the secretary of the Interior, would forever prohibit dams or diversions, such as were proposed in the 1950s and 1960s.
``It's only been in recent times that the hierarch y of the Park Service has recognized the significance of wilderness management,'' said Linda Jalbert, the park's outdoor recreation planner.
Under a proposal released Monday, the National Park Service by year's end would manage 94 per cent of the 1.3 million-acre park as if it were officially designated wilderness.
The new draft Wilderness Management Plan also goes further, calling for 1,109,257 acres to be immediately designated wilderness as soon as Congress could act.
