As the trial of Botha continued Monday after a six-week recess, the prosecution tried to make clear that the Truth and Reconciliation Commission investigating atrocities of the past had good reason to want answers from the 82-year-old former president, who is facing charges of contempt for refusing to appear before the panel.
In one document, from 1979, van Zyl said, the State Security Council, an elite circle of security chiefs and Cabinet ministers, discussed plans for top-secret operations against anti-apartheid activists abroad.
Van Zyl testified that the investigative unit of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission had received information on cross-border operations where a range of people were killed, using parcel bombs.
During his testimony Monday, Paul van Zyl, the executive secretary of the commission, laid out documents and testimony that appeared to link Botha to a number of illegal acts.
Truth Commission officials have maintained that they need Botha's testimony if they are to accomplish their task of investigating and writing a report on the country's brutal history.
Botha's lawyers said in the past that Botha planned a defense based on the notion that he had had a private agreement with the head of the commission, Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu, that he did not have to testify.
But the decision to take Botha to trial has caused bitterness among whites, many of whom believe the commission is simply trying to humiliate members of the former government.
What exactly did the man who governed South Africa during its most brutal period of repression mean when he approved, as documents indicate, the elimination, neutralization and permanent removal from society of anti-apartheid activists?
And what about the witnesses who have said that they bombed a church building or crossed South Africa's borders to murder political opponents under direct orders from him?
The sometimes frail-looking Botha, sitting in a specially padded seat because of hip replacement surgery, has remained defiant, calling the Truth Commission a circus and a witch hunt.
