In keeping with its psychotherapeutic predecessors (David Lodge's ``Therapy,'' Judith Rossner's ``August''), ``The Treatment'' presumes to examine the flotsam of life's incidents through the lens of a therapeutic narrative.
An editor at The New Yorker for years, Menaker is also the author of the highly respected story collection ``The Old Left''; his aesthetic bent seems made for the shorter form, in fact, and that is both one of the strengths of ``The Treatment'' _ its laconic, gossamer insights _ as well as its primary weakness.
This folie a deux forms the larger reality of ``The Treatment,'' even though Jake's story, as lived in the real world, soon branches out from Morales's grip to the less predictable milieu of work and love.
But then coincidence, or the mystical power of cause and effect, may be the one transformative device a guy like Jake can believe in; thus far, he's been wrestled to the ground by the gods of chaos, and even Morales concedes ``the general arbitrariness of the human condition.''
But you don't have to be a congregant at the church of Freud to get the jokes in ``The Treatment,'' or to bask in the luminously treacherous portrayal of Morales.
Cuban, Catholic, a ``madman privateer'' with an office on the Upper East Side, Dr. Ernesto Morales uses his emigre English to make heinous accusations and awful puns, yawns and shuffles papers when he's piqued, then demands details of his patient's sex life to perk himself up.
It's high tribute to this particular Dr. Strangelove that Jake's forays into the larger world can seem frustratingly diversionary; we long to get back to that uncomfortable couch, if only to witness the tortures Morales will inflict from his desk on high.
What he finds in the alleged sanctum sanctorum is less epiphany than pectoral-building battleground: Jake confesses, Morales insults and humiliates, Jake departs to fight on higher ground.
On the couch for these harangues is the novel's narrator, Jake Singer, a 30ish teacher of blue-blazer boys at the tony Coventry School who has come to Morales for the usual large and small reasons: old losses, broken relationships, destructively impulsive behavior.
In his hilarious and terrifying construction of the analyst provocateur at the heart of ``The Treatment,'' Daniel Menaker has given us a shrink of such adversarial proportion it makes you long for the Good Witch Glenda in his stead.
