Given all of this, American observers especially were prone to believe that just as the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 had vindicated the American political model _ liberal democracy _ so the fall of Asia's markets in 1997 proved the wisdom of the American economic model _ free-market capitalism.
For one thing, the Asian financial crisis ravaged the credibility of a supposedly distinctive East Asian, or Japanese, model of economic growth based on cooperation between conglomerates _ Japan's keiretsu, South Korea's chaebol, Indonesia's konglomerat _ and astute government officials.
As if the prescription of political freedom were a cure for East Asia's economic ills, South Korean President Kim Dae Jung blames the Asian crisis squarely on authoritarian rule.
In 1997 five East Asian stock markets _ those of Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, South Korea and Thailand _ lost more than three-fifths of their value in dollars.
But a comparison between South Korea and Singapore does not confirm Kim's sweeping belief in lack of democracy as the major reason for the economic setback in every country in Asia.
Indeed, East Asia's diversity _ historical, cultural, political, economic _ ensured that the crisis would affect each country differently.
``In every country in Asia, including Korea,'' he has said, ``the major reason for (economic) failure was lack of democracy.''
In his own allocation of blame for the Asian crisis, Singapore's Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew has suggested that what distinguishes the unscathed from the damaged is not political democracy but good governance of the economy.
The crisis damaged the Asian leg in the tripod model favored by those who expected power after the Cold War to coalesce around three regional blocs, each with its respective hinterland and hub: East Asia fanning out from Tokyo, the Americas centered on Washington, and Europe led from Brussels.
The crisis appeared to have abated in some countries earlier this year, notably Thailand and South Korea, but it worsened in Indonesia, Southeast Asia's largest economy, where President Suharto has finally been forced to resign.
