To make matters worse, the character Nory often seems like a deliberate effort on Baker's part to create an antithesis to Arno Strine, the obnoxious hero of his 1994 novel ``The Fermata'': Where Arno was hypocritical, Nory is sincere; where Arno was selfish, Nory is selfless; where Arno was manipulative and self-deluding, Nory is innocent and sweet.
Given Baker's superawareness of his childhood, it's not surprising that his latest novel, ``The Everlasting Story of Nory,'' should take the form of a 9-year-old's story of ``the absolute best year of her life.''
Nory's stories _ and she turns out to be an inveterate storyteller who's constantly regaling her stuffed animals with tales _ also reverberate with suspiciously grown-up ideas: that children are obsessed with Grimm Brother-esque violence and terror; that children are conscious of the therapeutic rewards of art (of making order out of chaos, happy endings out of sad ones).
Instead, the reader is left with a thin, highly predictable narrative about a schoolgirl's banal _ and uneventful _ life: getting up, getting dressed, going to school, making friends, squabbling with friends, going on outings with parents, going to sleep, having dreams and nightmares, getting up the next day.
In such passages, Baker demonstrates an innate understanding of the clarity and common sense that bright children so often possess, and he uses this instinctive knowledge to imbue Nory's story with a sprightly, eccentric humor.
In his delightfully quirky first novel, ``The Mezzanine'' (1988), Nicholson Baker hinted that his love of detail and obsession with minutiae stemmed from his vivid, tactile memories of childhood: ``Will the time ever come,'' he wondered, ``when I am not so completely dependent on thoughts I first had in childhood to furnish the feedstock for my comparisons and analogies and sense of the parallel rhythms of microhistory?
``Nory'' deals with similarly momentous issues in the life of a fourth-grader, like the pros and cons of admitting that you like Barbie dolls, the difficulty of getting the right amount of toothpaste on your toothbrush and the problems of lending someone your pencil box at school.
And when she sees a bank's corporate sponsorship logo at the local cathedral, she worries that it will make people think about cash machines, instead of the Virgin Mary's love for her son.
It's a bit of very adult advice that Baker, himself, should have listened to in writing this plotless and all too often listless novel.
His first two novels took adult minutiae and extrapolated them into entire books: ``The Mezzanine'' chronicled a man's lunch hour in which he buys a new pair of shoelaces, a cookie and a small container of milk; ``Room Temperature'' described a young father giving his infant daughter a bottle.
