Please note that news stories and features from The Arizona Republic, Bloomberg News, The Boston Globe, Cox News Service, Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Hearst Newspapers, The Houston Chronicle, The Kansas City Star, Los Angeles Daily News, San Francisco Chronicle, Seattle Post-Intelligencer, States News Service and the New York Times Regional newspapers are all part of your New York Times News Service file.
&UR; FOR TUESDAY AMs &LR;    Here are the top news stories in sight at this hour from The New York Times News Service for AMs of Tuesday, June 2:    For questions about stories call (212) 556-1927.
&UR; FINANCIAL &LR;  (``f'' code)    AHP-MONSANTO (Undated) _ American Home Products acquires Monsanto for about $34.4 billion in stock, creating one of the world's largest makers of pharmaceuticals, seeds and herbicides.
&UR; WASHINGTON &LR;  (``w'' code)    CLINTON-STARR (Washington) _ Deadline at 4:30 p.m. today for the White House to respond to Kenneth Starr's request for taking an executive privilege dispute directly to the Supreme Court.
The acquisition by American Home adds Monsanto's arthritis drugs, including at least one potential blockbuster, to American Home's Advil painkiller and Premarin hormone-replacement therapy.
&UR; NATIONAL GENERAL &LR;  (``a'' code)    PHILLY-TRANSIT-STRIKE (Washington) _ Philadelphia transit workers make good on their strike threat and walk off their jobs at noon, bringing public transportation to a halt in a city that can ill afford a protracted labor dispute.
A list of stories being considered by New York Times editors for Page 1 will move at approximately 4:30 p.m.
HMO-LOBBY (Washington) _ A look at the high-stakes lobbying surrounding the HMO debate as House Republicans prepare a final draft of a bill and Democrats step up the pressure, looking to score political points.
Monsanto, which spun off its chemicals business last year to focus on genetically engineered crops and agricultural products, agreed three weeks ago to buy DeKalb Genetics and Delta and Pine Land for $4.1 billion.
SCOTUS (Washington) _ A roundup: The Supreme Court gives standing to voters who are challenging a ruling of the Federal Election Commission that AIPAC need not release its membership rolls but withholds ruling on the actual case.
