NEW YORK _ The partners of Goldman, Sachs &AMP; Co. are deep in discussion about how best to structure their storied firm and whether to open it to public ownership, Jon Corzine, Goldman's senior partner, told employees Monday morning, executives at the Wall Street firm said.
Without such a consensus, it is unlikely that the question of whether to go public would be put to a vote of the partners, several of the firm's executives said Monday.
``Consideration of this complex issue will quickly be coming to a head'' and ``will be considered by the full partnership,'' Corzine said in a broadcast to employees that was taped, according to several Goldman executives who heard the tape and relayed what he had said.
On June 12, Goldman's 190 partners gather in Rye Brook, N.Y., in Westchester County, for their annual meeting, where they will review an extensive internal report on the firm's current and proposed financial structure now being prepared by a small internal team led by Christopher Flowers, a partner who advises financial institutions.
Among the leaders who appear to be leaning toward some kind of stock sale are Henry Paulson Jr., Corzine's co-chairman and co-chief executive; Roy Zuckerberg, Goldman's longest-serving partner, who has one of the largest shares in the firm; and Robert Hurst, a vice chairman, who runs the investment banking business.
In general, Goldman's more senior partners, with their much larger shares in the firm, have tended to favor going public, but the junior partners _ who have yet to acquire substantial stakes _ are less willing to sell.
``The guiding principles in this discussion,'' Corzine continued, are ``what's in the long-term best interests of Goldman, its mission and its employees.''
And ``if there is a sale of stock,'' he added, ``it is likely to involve a minority of the firm, widely expected to be 15 percent or less.''
While proposals for taking Goldman, Sachs public have come up several times in years past, the recent rapid pace of change in the financial-services industry _ in particular, the planned $70 billion combination of Citicorp and Travelers Group, and the rapid expansion of Goldman's chief competitors, Merrill Lynch &AMP; Co. and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter _ make the current discussion at Goldman more urgent.
The time is right to consider these issues now, Corzine told employees Monday, precisely because the firm is doing so well, without ``the anxieties of business or leadership stress.''
