``You don't ever think that game should have come down to something like that,'' said the Red Sox rookie, who had a direct hand in both weekend wins over the Yankees, having singled home the deciding run in Boston's 3-2 win Saturday.
It was Boston's biggest inning in 12 years, one in which both Garciaparra (two-run double, RBI infield hit) and rookie Varitek (the broken-bat single, two-run double) had two hits apiece, Darren Lewis walked twice, and Varitek, Lewis, and John Valentin all scored twice.
Merloni's words apparently echoed Vaughn's thoughts, because when the Red Sox came off the field after that inning, one in which two relievers, John Wasdin and Ron Mahay, came and went without getting anybody out, Vaughn had a meltdown in the dugout.
``I said to him in Spanish, `Batea, batea (hit, hit),''' Martinez said, talking about Williams's at-bat in the fourth inning, when he singled.
Kerrigan accused the Yankee hitters of trying to play ``mind games'' with Martinez, and wondered why just a few days ago, AL president Gene Budig praised the Red Sox for the up-tempo way they play, but doesn't tell his umpires to make hitters stay in the box.
Martinez wasn't smiling when he complained that Williams, who had four hits Sunday and 10 hits in his last 12 at-bats against the Red Sox, continued to step in and out of the batter's box against him.
They didn't score because Lewis was tossed out stealing and Vaughn and Troy O'Leary grounded out, but they finally put the game out of reach in the top of the ninth with four more hits, including Lewis's two-run single.
Because before the end of a 13-7 win over the New York Yankees, slugger Mo Vaughn was mad at his teammates, pitcher Pedro Martinez was mad at plate umpire Jim Joyce and Yankee outfielder Bernie Williams, and pitching coach Joe Kerrigan was mad at the American League.
``It's a very frustrating experience, that the game was three hours (actually 3:45),'' Martinez said.
The Sox had managed just Darren Bragg's infield single in the four innings following the third, which began with a broken-bat single by rookie Jason Varitek off Yankees lefthander Andy Pettitte and ended 43 minutes and 76 pitches later, after 16 batters, 9 hits, and 3 walks.
