In the other camp are the treasure hunters _ they prefer ``commercial salvors'' _ who claim that without private enterprise and the willingness to take risks, humankind will be deprived of relics _ and the salvors their gold _ as they wait for government or museum funding for underwater excavations.
A year ago, for example, the South Street Seaport Museum in New York City sponsored a program on pirate lore and invited Kenneth Kinkor of Eastham, by all accounts the expert of the Whydah, the only pirate wreck ever located.
That passion stems from two very different approaches to salvaging wrecks, an issue that didn't bubble to the surface until a dozen years ago when treasure hunters made two significant finds.
Treasure hunting is booming as a result of better and better technology for finding long-lost wrecks, creating not only a growing market in recovered artifacts, but an intensifying battle over whether it's just good business or a greedy rape of our archeological past.
Nevertheless, 200 artifacts recovered from the wreck, including chains and shackles, have enabled researchers to trace the ship's origins to London, and fill in with graphic new new details the early days of the slave trade.
The I-52, which salvors say is the deepest wreck ever located (Titanic is 2 miles deep), sank in 1944 with approximately two tons of gold destined for Germany.
Another exhibit currently blackballed by academic purists is a collection from the wreck of the Henrietta Marie, a 1700s-slave ship discovered off Florida by treasure hunters and excavated in the mid-1980s.
So many people bearing jewels allegedly recovered from shipwrecks come in asking Muller, curator of the Hispanic Society of America Museum in New York City, to identify their treasures that she can't possibly remember them all, she says.
Take away private enterprise _ and this applies most to the UNESCO proposal _ and the salvors will be forced to work fast and recklessly, because you're never going to stop treasure hunting,'' says Hess.
``By exhibiting artifacts from treasure hunters, we are condoning their work,'' Delgado said.
