``There is too much pessimism about the international competitiveness of Japanese banks,'' said Toru Hashimoto, chairman of Fuji Bank Ltd. ``Many major banks have taken bold steps to improve their financial health by writing off, directly or indirectly, enormous amounts of nonperforming loans at the end of March this year.
In particular, he said that Russia is under ``serious strain,'' warning that ``Russia's trouble in turn has the potential to become central Europe's, and the world's.''
VIENNA, Austria _ Chiding Japan for not addressing its economic problems more adroitly and voicing strong support for the International Monetary Fund, Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers warned Monday that problems in Russia and China had the potential to spread elsewhere.
In a speech to banking executives at the International Monetary Conference here, Summers said the health and direction of the Japanese economy were important factors in the recovery of Southeast Asia and scolded Japan and its banks for not acting more boldly to help revive the nation's sagging fortunes.
In Poland, for example, the all-share Warsaw Stock Index fell 4.1 percent Monday, continuing a sharp drop under way for the last couple weeks, sparked largely by Russia's financial problems.
Summers advocated continued international support for emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, but cautioned that lending must occur in an environment where every country has established rigorous accounting procedures, greater oversight of borrowers and easy access to financial information.
``Not to support the IMF at this point in time is like canceling one's life insurance policy when one has already gotten sick,'' Summers said.
``But it will also be vital to address in a more determined manner the financial sector.''
But he said that it is crucial that China continue to act as a ``firebreak gainst the possibility of another cycle of competitive devaluation in Asia.''
Summers said that the IMF was an indispensable tool for helping to resolve international financial instability of the sort that has recently threatened to swamp countries like Indonesia and Russia.
