When the World Cup of Soccer tournament begins June 10, even soccer-loving Parisians might find it hard to summon enthusiasm: Three days after the French Cup victory, when French national team coach Aime Jacquet named his provisional squad for the World Cup, not one Paris-Saint-Germain player made the cut.
The French tourism minister last month raised British hackles by sending the opposite message: Come to France to soak up the World Cup atmosphere even if you don't have tickets.
French tourism officials are projecting a 5 percent decline in tourism during the World Cup, despite an expected 350,000 World Cup visitors.
At Chatelet station, where the commuter line from the new 80,000-seat Stade de France feeds into the subway system, the train was invaded by a horde of young people dressed in the red, white and blue of Paris-Saint-Germain, the city's pro soccer team.
Complaints that France was hogging too many tickets for its own people rose to the status of an international incident in early spring, when the European Commission and Socialist members of the European Parliament threatened legal action against the tournament's organizers.
To judge from the posters for sale in stalls and shops and subway entrances all over Paris, the city's main passion is neither soccer nor opera, but American film star Leonardo DiCaprio.
Acting partly out of a concern about possible violence, the British government has been actively discouraging Britons without World Cup tickets from visiting France during the event.
The city of Paris _ which has a reputation for being gruff to visitors _ has launched several efforts to help World Cup visitors feel comfortable and welcome.
World Cup spectators are subject to body searches for weapons and other prohibited items, including alcohol, laser pen lights and ``documents, tracts, insignia, symbols or canvas banners of a political, ideological, philosophical or advertising nature ...''    The police also have discretion to order drinking establishments to close early.
Giant video screens are being set up in public places in all the World Cup cities to provide televised match coverage for the benefit of those who can't buy tickets.
