Other federal agents and state investigators said John J. Gotti, 57, who is serving a life sentence without parole in the federal prison in Marion, Ill., would have to rely even more on his brother, Peter, to maintain control of the family.
J. Bruce Mouw, the former head of the FBI's Gambino squad, said in a recent interview that D'Amico and Peter Gotti had been running the family although the younger Gotti, 34, had the title of acting boss bestowed on him by his father.
NEW YORK _ In the next phase of the government's crackdown on the Gambino crime family's hierarchy, a suspected top aide to the gang's imprisoned boss, John J. Gotti, will be indicted Tuesday on federal racketeering charges, defense lawyers say.
The investigators, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said D'Amico would be added as a co-defendant in a case involving Gotti's son, John A. Gotti, who was indicted in January on extensive fraud and extortion accusations.
Investigators said John D'Amico, who has been delegated by Gotti to help run the Gambino family while he is in prison, would be charged on gambling and loan sharking counts.
But the conviction and imprisonment last year of Corozzo and the indictment this year of Gotti's son, who is being held without bail, catapulted D'Amico into a position of prime importance in the Mafia family's operations, the authorities said.
Before John Gotti took control of the Gambino family in 1986, D'Amico was viewed by federal agents as a low-level Gambino soldier.
D'Amico's lawyer, James DiPietro, said in an interview Monday that an indictment against his client might be unsealed Tuesday in U.S. District Court in White Plains, where the case against John A. Gotti, known as Junior, and a dozen other co-defendants is pending.
An indictment and possible conviction of D'Amico, investigators said, would further weaken the Gambino gang, which has been displaced by the Genovese crime family as the nation's largest and most powerful Mafia faction.
Federal and state investigators have identified D'Amico as one of three capos or captains in the Gambino family who were appointed in 1992 by the elder Gotti to administer the gang and safeguard the financial interests of his relatives while he is imprisoned.
