``It would be possible with a lot of care and tremendous difficulty to fabricate a weapon that could have a yield of hundreds of tons, but it would be a bigger weapon than you would need with normal plutonium,'' he said, making it harder to deliver.
Radkowsky's design is that each bundle would have an inner ``seed'' using uranium, and outer tubes forming a ``blanket,'' filled mostly with thorium.
One is that the uranium in the seed would have to be enriched to about 20 percent of the fissile type of uranium, uranium-235, compared with about 3-5 percent in conventional reactors.
Naval Propulsion Program, says its fuel could be used in existing reactors in place of the ordinary uranium fuel, and would produce very little plutonium, a normal byproduct of the reaction when uranium is used.
In fact, there would be more plutonium in a ton of used seed from the Radkowsky design than from a ton of used uranium fuel from a conventional uranium reactor.
nn    Thomas Graham, a former negotiator for the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency who is now president of the Lawyers' Alliance for World Security and a member of the Radkowsky company's board of directors, said that what India had done in the last few years would have been nearly impossible if that country's reactors had used Radkowsky fuel.
For one thing, it would have a large quantity of plutonium-238, which gives off heat for years, so much heat, he said, that it would interfere with the high explosives that are used to help set off a nuclear weapon.
And the plutonium it does produce would be a mix of types that makes the weapon prone to ``fizzle,'' or sustain a chain reaction for only a brief period, cutting its explosive yield by 95 to 97 percent.
He pointed out, though, that even if production is cut by 80 percent, a large nuclear reactor would still produce enough plutonium each year for several bombs.
But Alex Galperin, a professor at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and an associate of Radkowsky, said in a telephone interview that the mix of types of plutonium in the reactor would still deter someone who wanted to build a bomb.
