The commission's proposal would take a broader view of the type of ``membership organization'' that AIPAC has always claimed to be, a change that would in turn be likely to treat AIPAC's expenditures as ``membership communications'' rather than the kind of spending that would bring it within the definition of a political committee.
If an organization did not have as its ``major purpose'' the nomination or election of candidates, the commission said, it would not be considered a political committee even if it came within the law's technical definition.
AIPAC, a nonprofit membership organization that does not endorse candidates or make direct political contributions, argued that it was not a political committee within the meaning of the law.
WASHINGTON _ The Supreme Court Monday opened the door to lawsuits against the Federal Election Commission by voters claiming that the commission has not adequately enforced the disclosure requirements imposed by federal law on certain political groups.
Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled last year that there was no basis in the law for the ``major purpose'' test and that the commission would have to treat AIPAC as a political committee.
One of the plaintiffs, Andrew Killgore, said his group would continue to press for AIPAC to be defined as a political committee and expected to prevail in forcing disclosure of AIPAC's activities.
First, he said, the wording of the 1971 law, which authorizes ``any party aggrieved by an order of the commission dismissing a complaint'' to file suit in U.S. District Court, indicated that Congress intended to permit suits of this kind, particularly when the suit requested information of the kind that the law requires to be disclosed.
However, he continued, the court should not address the validity of the disputed definition of a political committee because the commission was currently considering a new rule that could make the question irrelevant to AIPAC's status.
In that eventuality, Breyer said, the campaign law would not apply and the dispute over the commission's ``major purpose'' test would be moot.
The law defines a political committee as ``any committee'' that receives or spends more than $1,000 in a given year for the purpose of ``influencing any election for federal office.''
