``The tie-up between Japanese financial institutions and foreign institutions will accelerate,'' said Yukiko Ohara, a bank analyst with SBC Warburg Japan Ltd. ``Japanese financial institutions need a good product.
``Nikko will run the risk of losing weight because the company will move its most promising areas of business, like investment banking business, to the new joint venture,'' said Yushiro Ikuyo, a financial analyst at Commerz Securities Japan, who formerly worked at Smith Barney here.
TOKYO _ The Travelers Group and the Nikko Securities Co. formally announced an agreement on Monday that will give the Wall Street powerhouse a 25 percent stake in Japan's third-largest securities brokerage firm for $1.6 billion, a deal that immediately raised questions about how quickly the Japanese financial industry would consolidate.
``The number of potential brides, or marriage partners, drops down by one and there aren't that many with the size of distribution network that Nikko has,'' said James Fiorillo, a financial analyst at ING Barings in Japan.
``Our creating a partnership with Nikko will allow us to be more productive not only in this marketplace but all around the world,'' said Sanford Weill, the chairman of Travelers, at a joint news conference here on Monday with Masashi Kaneko, Nikko Securities' president.
For Travelers, which has agreed to merge with Citicorp in a record $70 billion transaction, the deal with Nikko helps round out its vision of becoming the world's leading diversified financial company, one that will some day be a household name in all major markets.
In exchange, Travelers will purchase 9.5 percent of Nikko's common stock for 70 billion yen _ about $507 million _ and a further 15.5 percent ownership interest in the form of convertible bonds, for 150 billion yen, or about $1.1 billion.
The partners said that in January they would establish Nikko Salomon Smith Barney Ltd., a $1 billion joint venture that will trade securities, advise on mergers and acquisitions, underwrite stocks and bonds, and produce economic research.
Kaneko said the world is witnessing ``the global consolidation of the financial industry.''
``Nikko may end up becoming a marketing representative for Travelers' financial products.''
