Ortega lost again and, despite being reelected Sandinista leader at the party's Congress last weekend _ four days before his stepdaughter lodged criminal sexual abuse charges against him _ few Nicaraguans believe Ortega will be a presidential candidate next time around.
More seriously, using the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), President Reagan encouraged and financed the remnants of dictator Somoza's feared National Guardsmen to form the ``Contras'' _ short for ``Counter-Revolutionaries'' _ a right-wing guerrilla group aimed at overthrowing the Sandinistas and restoring a government more amenable to the Reagan administration.
But Daniel Ortega captured the hearts of the post-Guevara generation when he led the ragtag men and women of the Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN) into Managua in July 1979 after overthrowing dictator Anastasio Somoza in a guerrilla war that had soaked Nicaraguan streets in blood.
As ``coordinator'' of the revolution, a man who had spent seven years in Somoza's jails, often tortured, no one batted an eyelid when the Sandinistas appointed him President of Nicaragua, a post he held until world pressure forced him to hold free elections in 1990.
Many Nicaraguan women, including Sandinistas, say the party always had a macho bent, shown by the relatively few women given senior government positions despite having served as foot soldiers in the guerrilla war and revolution.
As Sandinista leader, Ortega became the new symbol of revolution 20 years after Guevara and Fidel Castro had overthrown Cuba's dictator, Fulgencio Batista.
With Guevara long dead _ killed in Bolivia in 1967 _ and Castro deeply frozen inside the Cold War, Ortega became the biggest thorn in the side of the United States, and the focal point of Ronald Reagan's anti-communist paranoia.
Ortega even brought in former ``Contra'' guerrillas to his campaign, including the notorious Commander Mack, once photographed ordering one of his men to cut a peasant's throat, in an effort to win conservative votes.
Based across the Nicaraguan border in Honduras and Costa Rica, the Contras launched hit-and-run attacks, carried out massacres and engaged in combat with the Sandinistas which left tens of thousands of Nicaraguans dead throughout the Eighties.
Ortega, now 52, has been opposition leader ever since, often disrupting public life by organizing strikes and regularly threatening to take up arms again _ a threat few, if any Nicaraguans ever take seriously.
