_MICHAEL R. GORDON    U.S. May Have Helped India Hide Nuclear Test Sites    An intelligence board will report this week on why the United States failed to foresee this month's nuclear tests by India, which spurred tests in Pakistan and incited what President Clinton calls a ``dangerous arms race.''
In 66 towns and villages in Canada and the United States, people are printing their own money _ from Sand Dollars in Bolinas, Calif., to Mountain Money in Hot Springs, N.C., to Thread City Bread in Willimantic, Conn.    All of these currencies, printed in kaleidoscopic colors, tend to be denominated in hours, with one hour worth $10.
_STEPHEN LABATON    Lyme Disease Vaccine Gets Cautious Push    Lyme disease is the most common tick-borne illness in the United States, and its sometimes debilitating symptoms _ arthritis and damage to the nervous system and heart _ underscore the need for a vaccine.
Federal officials said the Medicaid law seems to require that states must cover most prescription drugs when they are used for purposes approved by the Food and Drug Administration, as is the case with Viagra.
_EDWARD A. GARGAN    A Growing Case Against Swiss Banks    A long-awaited report sponsored by the Swiss government confirmed the central bank's complicity in accepting gold looted from Holocaust victims, bolstering allegations by Jewish groups that Switzerland traded in wartime misery.
Some government officials now say that showing those photos to the Indians revealed how the United States spied on the test site, and thus enabled India to conceal its preparations this time around.
_LINDA GREENHOUSE    Starr Wants Quick Decision    Kenneth Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel, asked the Supreme Court to rule quickly on whether two of President Clinton's aides must appear before the grand jury investigating the Monica Lewinsky matter.
In places like Ithaca, N.Y., where the system has been running for seven years, the equivalent of millions of dollars in business has been done in the local currency, Ithaca Hours, and it is accepted by a local hospital, a federal credit union, grocery and book stores, hair salons and chiropractors.
Although the report, produced by a panel of nine Swiss and international historians, discounted profit as a motive, it noted the Swiss National Bank was Germany's biggest client, buying gold that would be worth $2.5 billion today.
The justices overturned a ruling by the federal appeals court in California _ home of the televised high-speed chase _ that had set the more plaintiff-friendly standard of ``deliberate indifference'' as the measure of police liability.
