Clinton's decision not to fight over executive privilege and to instead push for a Court of Appeals review of the remaining issue of attorney-client privilege could delay independent counsel Kenneth Starr's investigation of whether the president obstructed justice by urging a cover-up of his relationship with Lewinsky.
As Ruff's deputies filed the documents with the Supreme Court, the Justice Department filed a notice that it would appeal another ruling by Johnson that would require the Secret Service agents who guard the president to tell Starr's grand jury what they know about Clinton's relationship with Lewinsky.
The president's attorneys notified the Supreme Court late Monday that he is dropping his executive privilege claim and that there is no longer any reason for the court to act quickly in the dispute over Lindsey's testimony in the Monica Lewinsky case.
Clinton had invoked executive privilege in an effort to shield Lindsey and adviser Sydney Blumenthal from having to reveal their conversations with the president or first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton to a grand jury being used by Starr to investigate charges of witness tampering or perjury involving the president's alleged sexual misbehavior.
The White House responded Monday by dropping the executive privilege assertion and arguing that ``we are not in the throes of a national emergency ... (and) the fate of the nation will not hang in the balance'' if the dispute were first settled by the appeals court.
If the Supreme Court agrees with the White House not to review the attorney-client question until the Court of Appeals rules, then Lindsey's testimony _ if the courts eventually rule that he must cooperate with Starr _ could be delayed at least until fall.
WASHINGTON _ Deciding against a Watergate-style fight over executive privilege, President Clinton notified the Supreme Court on Monday that close friend and trusted adviser Bruce Lindsey's status as a lawyer should protect their conversations about an alleged presidential affair and cover-up.
The Justice Department and the Secret Service had sought a new ``protective function'' privilege that would shield Secret Service officers from having to disclose what they observe while protecting the president.
Judge Johnson last month ruled that although the president had a right to exercise executive privilege, that claim was outweighed by the need for information from Lindsey and Blumenthal in Starr's criminal investigation.
The judge also ruled that Starr's need for information was greater than the White House claim of attorney-client privilege involving testimony from Lindsey.
