The court held that the President did enjoy a Governmental attorney-client privilege with members of his counsel's office, but, as was true of the Presidential communications privilege, it could be overcome on O.I.C.
The Office of the President submitted the affidavits ``to establish as a factual matter that the communications in the White House over which executive privilege was being asserted related to official matters and official conduct.''
[Office of the Independent Counsel) seeking to compel Bruce Lindsey, deputy counsel to the President, and Sidney Blumenthal, assistant to the President, to testify concerning discussions they had had with the President of the United States and with Presidential advisers.
The President had asserted that certain of the communications at issue were covered by the Presidential communications privilege, the Governmental attorney-client privilege, and the attorney work product doctrine.
First, it contended that, because the communications over which the President had asserted the Presidential communications privilege related to private conduct, the privilege did not apply at all.
In this setting, where the White House is undeniably an adversary of the O.I.C., the President is entitled to an absolute attorney-client privilege for his discussions with White House counsel, just like any other party to a legal proceeding.
also argued before the District Court that as a matter of law, the President could not assert a Governmental attorney-client privilege in the face of a Federal grand jury subpoena.
Such a proceeding would be against the President in his official capacity, represented in that matter by the Counsel to the President.
WASHINGTON _ Following are excerpts from papers filed Monday in the U.S. Supreme Court by President Clinton in response to a motion on Thursday by the independent counsel for an expedited review of claims made by Clinton that would block the testimony of some of his top aides: &QL;    STATEMENT OF THE CASE:    On May 4, 1998, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia (Johnson, C.J.
... With the question presented, with respect to the White House, narrowed to that arising out of the Governmental attorney-client privilege, the benefits that this court normally derives from fuller explication of legal issues by the courts of appeals are particularly pronounced.
