May's astonishing ``Yes'' votes in the North and South, ratifying April's miraculous peace agreement and empowering a new majority that can relegate sectarian concepts of the republic and its still-British North to the past, needs to spark a complimentary transformation in this country.
It can't happen as dramatically, but America's 44 million citizens of Irish extraction need to organize a critical mass capable of sustaining a future-centered relationship between their country and the new Ireland.
My metaphor for the future can be found in donated space at a law firm here, where the US-Ireland Alliance is taking shape under the organizing leadership of an amazing bundle of energy and vision _ Trina Vargo, until this month Senator Edward M. Kennedy's foreign policy staff person and one of the heroes in the back-breaking labors that went on in recent years to make a negotiated settlement possible.
Vargo's special interest in Ireland is peace, justice, and a new economic future at both ends of the island with much more US participation.
America's Irish voice, to pick an absurdly extreme example, must not be that of the ostriches in the organizations that flaunted their surly, quixotic republicanism in full-page newspaper ads urging rejection of the peace agreement.
She is Irish on her mom's side (a Daugherty), but the roots go back to 18th century Pennsylvania, and she doesn't know if they're North or South, Catholic or Protestant.
And, above all, Vargo labors to release the untapped energies of those unorganized 44 million people here, nearly half Protestant, and nearly all inactive in Irish matters.
Across the Atlantic, the short-term danger is that the parties to the peace agreement will reconvene in a new Northern Ireland assembly in late summer and gridlock over issues like prisoner release and the turning over of arms and explosives.
What she is building is an American organization with support from both sides of the ocean that will promote the US side of a new relationship with the republic and the North.
Now it's the Irish-Americans' turn to transcend traditional charity, culture, religion, and knee-jerk republicanism, and mobilize a new generation ready to support a grown-up relationship with a rapidly changing country.
