In Winchendon, near the New Hampshire state line, two men driving a pickup truck along Route 202 were killed when a pine tree snapped and toppled onto the 1994 Toyota pickup, just after 6 p.m.    ``We heard the tree break and I knew somebody had hit it,'' said Charlie Higgins, who lives with his wife at the site of the accident.
BOSTON _ Raging winds, hail, and blinding thunderstorms pummeled much of Massachusetts Sunday night, killing two people in a pickup truck in Winchendon, Mass., cutting power lines, toppling tree limbs, and threatening tornadoes for much of the night.
The storm, blown in from New York state after 5 p.m., first attacked Pittsfield, then tracked more northeast, cutting a swath of precipitation and wind across the top of the state and into southern Vermont and New Hampshire, Bennett said.
With tornado watches in effect throughout the region at least until early Monday, Doppler radar showed a twister may have touched down in Worcester County Sunday night, the National Weather Service reported.
But the storm was furious in its wrath here as well: Golf-ball-sized hail tumbled from the sky above Walpole, N.H., leaving cars dented, said Marc Bennett, a Weather Services Corp. meteorologist.
Greenfield reported a wind gust of 68 m.p.h., according to Jennifer Kensy, a Weather Services Corp. meteorologist.
Massachusetts Electric Co. reported 11,000 customers losing electricity, largely in the Merrimac Valley, the Worcester area, and central Massachusetts, said spokeswoman Maureen McDowell.
It was part of the same system that wracked South Dakota, said Alan Dunham, meteorologist with the National Weather Service, of the twisters that virtually leveled the town of Spencer, S.D., Saturday night.
At its height, Western Massachusetts Electric reported 5,287 customers without electric, mostly in Greenfield, the Pittsfield district, and later in west Springfield.
Estimating the tree to be 50 feet tall and two feet in diameter, Higgins said the pine broke about 10 feet off the ground.
