Seattle winners of the prestigious awards are Linda Bierds, a 53-year-old poet from Bainbridge Island who is chair of the UW's creative writing program; Charles Johnson, the 50-year-old novelist and National Book Award winner who also teaches in UW creative writing program; and Gary Hill, a 47-year-old video artist with an international reputation.
SEATTLE _ Three Seattle artists _ two writers who teach in the creative writing program at the University of Washington and a video artist _ are among the 29 winners of this year's ``genius grant'' fellowships conferred by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation of Chicago.
Bierds and Johnson were particularly thrilled to have two MacArthur winners from the small creative writing program in the UW's Department of English _ which foundation officials described as ``a rare coicidence.''
Johnson, who has had some dealings with the MacArthur Foundation in the past, returned a call on his answering machine from the foundation, with every expectation that he was going to be asked to give a comment on a prospective fellow.
Only two hours before the call from the MacArthur Foundation, Bierds received a call informing her that ``The Profile Makers'' has won the PEN/West prize for poetry from the writers organization.
Richard Kenney, a poet who also teaches creative writing at the UW, is a past MacArthur fellow, which means that three of the 10 teachers in the small program (40 graduate students) have now received this distinction.
Johnson said the MacArthur is far more significant to him than the National Book Award, especially since it honors people in many disciplines and also provides a degree of financial freedom.
Among the past winners are 10 people who live in the Seattle area: James F. Blinn, computer animation; Thomas L. Daniel, biology; Victoria E. Foe, biology; Mott T. Greene, history; Richard Kenney, poetry; Suzanne D. Liebsock, history; Margie J. Profet, biology; John E. Toews, history; Trimpin (cq no first name), music; Richard White, history.
In making the grant to Hill, the MacArthur Foundation praised the self-educated artist for being ``one of the major video artists of his generation.''
Daniel Socolow, director of the MacArthur Foundation, said Monday, ``To have three fellows does say something about that program _ that is doing well indeed and must have some wonderfully talented people.''
