One of the most prominent foreigners to have sought audiences with Clinton during the last election was Liu Chaoying, an aerospace company executive and child of the Chinese army's most senior general, Liu Huaqing.
He said the ministry of state security would jealously guard its right to manage an espionage mission, and the Foreign Ministry would be unlikely to charge an aerospace company executive with an important diplomatic duty, even if the executive had a high rank by birth.
China Aerospace, for example, controls Great Wall Industries, which manages China's Long March commercial rockets and solicits launch business from foreign satellite companies.
But China Aerospace and its subsidiary are also developing a separate and purely commercial television satellite business to serve Chinese homes.
``I was a skeptic from the beginning and I remain a skeptic,'' says James Mulvenon of the Rand Corp. in California, a specialist on the Chinese military and its commercial ventures.
And one expert on the Chinese military, Tai Ming Cheung in Hong Kong, says the bulk of money earned by military companies is invested in new businesses, or used to buy luxury goods for senior officers, or laundered overseas.
``One thing you can say with some certainty is that China is not run like Iraq, and Liu Huaqing is not Saddam, relying on his own children for sensitive missions,'' Mulvenon said.
Even further removed from the army's direct control are defense contractors, including the China Aerospace Corporation, the parent of Mrs. Liu's company.
But they question some of the received wisdom in Congress and the media that underlie the plot theory: that China's military is a monolith; that the army has wealth and discipline to match its size, and that China's military, foreign ministry, defense industry, intelligence gatherers and Cabinet can be assumed to act with anti-American singlemindedness.
The People's Liberation Army also has a vested interest in launching more foreign satellites and, of course, in acquiring American missile technology.
