NBC and Turner see better prospects for their venture because by owning the teams outright they will be able to keep salaries down, and if that would seem to promise games that are mainly comedies of error -- blooped punts, fumbled passes, half-fast backs -- the same proprietorship also would let the owners script the games for thrills.
Aced out of their traditional role in televising NFL games in the last, breathtakingly costly round of bidding for those rights, NBC and Turner broadcasting have announced plans to create a league of their own so as not to deny their viewers the ration of football they have been conditioned to expect.
The plan usefully tests basic questions of physics and sociology that scientists have wondered about for years: How much sports can you load on a population before the population breaks and runs screaming into the woods?
It is not clear that any survey of the population would reveal a deep yearning for another professional football league, but it looks as though we may be getting one anyway.
Other cable channels take up sports part-time, and the broadcast networks _ well, see above: ``bidding, breathtakingly costly.''
It will be time to worry when we hear that NBC News and CNN are building villages near active volcanoes or arming small, nastily disposed nations with battlefield nukes.
The attempt to interest U.S. viewers in the affairs of the Canadian Football League foundered on the thoughtful American conviction that Canadians could not possibly have anything useful to do with football.
Just hope that any success in creating their own sports exclusives doesn't give NBC and Turner other ideas.
Only the most dedicated television viewer, and one with the most practiced clicker hand, can successfully fishtail among the channels in search of content that does not require scorekeeping.
The NFL has swollen to 31 teams, making what used to be the simple arithmetic task of keeping track of the standings an exercise that now requires a background in calculus.
