``It's unfortunate when schools are falling down,'' said Bruce Bender, Vallone's chief of staff, ``when there's over 30,000 day care slots that need to be filled, when libraries are at risk, when there's overcrowding in the schools, that we are bogged down in an issue that's not related to the budget.''
NEW YORK _ Negotiations over New York City's next budget broke down Monday as the City Council prepared for the first time to pass its own spending plan, perhaps as early as Friday, without the agreement of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani.
Council leaders said a breakthrough appeared unlikely because of Giuliani's refusal to consider any changes that council members have sought in his budget proposal unless Peter Vallone, the speaker of the council, abandoned his referendum proposal on Yankee Stadium.
To buttress his point, the mayor's aides gave reporters a page from the council's alternative budget plan, which includes an item stating that a new Sports Facilities Corporation can study the idea of a ball park, as long as it is not ``located south of 125th Street in Manhattan.''
``Peter Vallone is saying the stadium issue has nothing to do with the budget,'' Mastro said, ``but his internal documents prove quite the opposite.''
``Yankee Stadium has absolutely nothing to do with the adoption of this budget, no matter how hard the mayor tries to make it,'' said Vallone, D-Queens.
Vallone and other leaders want to change Giuliani's budget plan to include a $1.4 billion cut in the personal income tax over three years and $226 million more in spending on schools, libraries and cultural programs.
Randy Mastro, deputy mayor for operations, said that while council leaders were publicly saying that Yankee Stadium had nothing to do with current budget talks, they had in fact privately examined the issue.
While the mayor and the speaker were able to reach agreement on budgets that included painful cuts in city services during Giuliani's first term, the current apparent deadlock seems paradoxical, given the fact that the city is ending the 1998 fiscal year with a record $2 billion surplus.
As of last night, no budget meetings between the mayor and the speaker's aides were scheduled for this week, officials involved in the negotiations said, but if history is any guide, both sides could resolve matters at the last minute.
