They included five horses Real Quiet has already defeated _ Derby and Preakness runnerup Victory Gallop (Gary Stevens riding), Classic Cat (John Velazquez), Hot Wells (Calvin Borel), Parade Ground (Pat Day) and Basic Trainee (Joe Bravo); and three new challengers _ Yarrow Brae (Jerry Bailey), Thomas Jo (Chris McCarron) and Raffie's Majesty (Jorge Chavez).
Real Quiet is scheduled to put in his last serious, 5-furlong workout this morning at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky., and fly and van to Belmont on Wednesday morning along with owner Mike Pegram, trainer Bob Baffert and jockey Kent Desormeaux.
Three other horses are listed as ``possible'' starters: Grand Slam (rider undetermined), who recovered from a nasty injury at age 2 to win the Peter Pan at Belmont nine days ago; Hanuman Highway (Jose Santos), who was seventh in the Derby; and lightly raced Limit Out (Jean-Luc Samyn).
LOS ANGELES _ When Real Quiet's van arrives at Belmont Park in New York on Wednesday, the colt might find as many as 11 opponents and 1{ miles of mud standing between him and thoroughbred history.
The debate promises to dominate this week leading up to Saturday's Belmont Stakes: Is Real Quiet somehow unworthy of a Triple Crown because of his 4-for-14 record and the fact that injuries to some other top 3 year olds have simplified his task?
Not only would Real Quiet become the first Triple Crown winner since Affirmed 20 years ago, his team would divide a $5 million bonus from Visa for sweeping the three races.
The eagerness of rival owners to take on the Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes winner confirms the obvious, that not everybody sees Real Quiet as a great horse worthy of mention alongside Count Fleet, Citation and Secretariat.
The weather could be a factor, because Real Quiet ran the worst race of his career on a mucky surface at Golden Gate Fields in Albany, Calif., in January.
``I'm so anxious for the race _ to find my destiny, so to speak,'' said Desormeaux, 28, from his home in Bradbury.
``Every night, I find myself wondering how the race is going to be run,'' Desormeaux said.
