The people who run it say they want to do for European cultural television what CNN and Britain's Sky News have done for commercial news television, but in a distinctively European way.
``We try to look at events in a different way from the national news programs,'' said Georg Schmolz, director of news programming, who now has two correspondents in Bonn and Paris and uses a bicycle to get around to the five different news production sites that Arte has in Strasbourg.
When European leaders defend European culture against the influx of Hollywood entertainment, Schreitmueller said, the result is the production of more French, German, Italian, etc.
So building a truly European public television station was a mighty challenge for Arte, a Franco-German cultural broadcasting channel based in this European city, when it started up six years ago.
``In both France and Germany today, there is far more national programming, particularly in movies, than there was 10 years ago,'' said Andreas Schreitmueller, who commissions movies for Arte and is German like Eisenhauer.
Symbolically based in a Rhineland city claimed by both France and Germany over the centuries and last fought over in World War II, the Arte consortium has a budget of $280 million, most of it provided from the television tax that France and Germany levy on all set owners.
News consumes 11 percent of the $175 million program budget, with a nightly magazine-format program at 7:30 weekdays and the main daily news report, with no anchor and voice-over news clips, at 8:30.
On Saturdays, the 7:30 p.m. slot is filled by ``Parallel History,'' a series that often takes events of World War II and analyzes how differently movie news programs of the day covered them in countries on opposite sides (Germany, Britain, Russia and occupied France, for instance).
``In the future, we'd like to be developing more extensive links with British producers at the BBC or Channel Four television, because without English you can't have a truly European network,'' he said.
``We said from the beginning that although we were a Franco-German enterprise, our future lay in Europe,'' said Hans Robert Eisenhauer, the station's deputy program director, over a glass of riesling and a plate of Alsatian pike-perch and sauerkraut at a restaurant near the station recently.
