NEW DELHI, India _ Declaring that there can be ``no compromise on defense preparedness'' in the wake of the nuclear tests conducted by India and Pakistan, the government of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee announced Monday that it has approved large budget increases for the country's armed forces, as well as for nuclear research and missile programs.
The military increases were dwarfed by increases of 68 percent for the Atomic Energy Commission, in charge of civilian and military nuclear programs, and 62 percent for the Department of Space, which helps develop rockets that India has used to launch space satellites as well as military variants the Vajpayee government has said will be equipped with nuclear warheads.
In their first budget, the Hindu nationalist leaders who head the country's coalition government revealed that military outlays will go up by 14 percent, part of which will pay wage increases for India's 1.6 million troops.
The diplomats said that the new outlays could be intended for stepped-up research on warheads and missiles, and for new missile tests that Indian scientists have already said are pending, with actual operational deployment still months or years away.
The budget increase is among the largest ever made by India in peacetime, and will push total military outlays to the equivalent of $12.4 billion, about 19 percent of total government outlays of $64.3 billion.
But Western diplomats said Monday that the budget increases, while steep, did not necessarily mean that India intended to proceed immediately with missile deployments, a step some Indian military analysts have said will cost at least $1 billion a year.
But even with an increase of 35 percent, the total outlay for these programs, about $2.6 billion, was only fractionally more than the budget for military hardware, and about 20 percent of the overall defense outlay.
Since India's nuclear tests, senior officials in the Vajpayee government have said the country will mount nuclear warheads on a range of missiles that have been test-fired in recent years.
Sinha told reporters that once the government had take a firm decision on ``weaponization,'' he would return to Parliament for more money on top of the defense increases in the budget.
Yashwant Sinha, the finance minister, also announced large increases in spending on education, health, family welfare and development programs for women and children, the core of India's efforts to relieve the dire poverty and illiteracy that afflict more than 350 million of its 980 million people.
