In a footnote in the White House brief filed Monday with the Supreme Court, administration lawyers said that Lindsey, a close friend of the president's for three decades, had already told the grand jury that he ``had no information that anyone had committed perjury or obstruction of justice.''
WASHINGTON _ President Clinton on Monday dropped the claims of executive privilege he had invoked in the Lewinsky investigation, moving to reduce the prospect of a quick Supreme Court review in the highly charged constitutional clash between the White House and the independent counsel.
The legal maneuver over executive privilege, approved by Clinton at a meeting Monday morning with his lawyers, was an attempt by the White House to narrow its appeal so as to rob the Supreme Court of an opportunity for a fast review, as independent counsel Kenneth Starr has sought.
''    But the White House on Monday quickly dispensed with a discussion of executive privilege in its motion to the Supreme Court, saying only that the claim is no longer a controversy because a federal judge, while ordering the aides to testify, had confirmed that the president was entitled to such a privilege in some circumstances.
The White House already had filed a notice that it intended to appeal the federal judge's decision, which said Starr's need for the testimony of Blumenthal and Lindsey outweighed the privileges.
Acting Monday under a Supreme Court deadline, administration lawyers told the justices that there was no pressing need to quickly consider the independent counsel's petition.
The Court has traditionally bypassed the appeals court, the White House brief said, in ``cases presenting the most profound and compelling circumstances.''
``One cannot overstate the intolerable threat that an unduly constrictive reading of the privilege poses to the president's ability to get frank and candid advice from his advisors,'' the president's lawyers said in court papers at the time.
``The White House continues to have reservations that the procedures the district court followed and intends to follow as witnesses appear before the grand jury may inadequately protect the confidentiality of presidential communications,'' the lawyers wrote.
``If you want to expand an existing privilege, to apply it in a new or unusual area, then the place to go is Congress, not the courts,'' Starr told a gathering of the Mecklenberg County Bar Association in Charlotte, N.C. ``The courts cannot be in the business of creating new privileges from whole cloth.
