But I arrived in California with a fresh perspective: Only days earlier, strategists for the Yes campaign in Northern Ireland bickered for 20 minutes (with reporters in the room, no less) over whether it would appear too cynical to print T-shirts with a big, bold, ``YES'' emblazoned across the front.
The inability of politicians to break through to American voters has been an undercurrent of campaigns for years, particularly in California, where the beaches are a more powerful draw than politics.
A day after votes were counted in the Northern Ireland peace referendum, I flew from Belfast to San Francisco to catch the final week of the California primary campaign.
By American standards, the memorandum was pretty tame, with suggestions of a ``daily handling meeting'' to plot strategy for ``exerting some influence on the content and quality of media coverage.''
Even so, for a reporter who has witnessed dozens of American elections over the last two decades, watching the campaign unfold in Ireland was a refreshing civics lesson, if also an ultimately depressing one.
American voters and political reporters, wise to the techniques of modern politics, are often numb to the consequences of campaign by focus group.
The biggest controversy involving strategy in the Irish campaign came when the press got hold of a memorandum written by the communications director of the Northern Ireland Office of the British government that outlined how to win passage of the referendum.
While people there were not particularly optimistic that the referendum would change anything, they had enough hope in their politicians and the process that they were not about to pass on voting altogether.
While it is to be expected that voting for the more consequential Ulster peace accord would draw more attention, the Irish turnout was no anomaly.
After a reasonably deep conversation here last week with a friend who is well educated and well-versed in current events (he once lived in Washington), he asked, ``When's the election, anyway?''
