Since being introduced in the 1970s, teaching associate programs have expanded to nearly half the nation's medical schools, if not more, said Gayle Gliva-McConvey, a pioneer in the programs and the director of the professional skills center at Eastern Virginia Medical School in Norfolk.
The genital teaching associate programs evolved with the standardized patient programs, which now exist in 83 of the nation's 126 medical schools, according to Ms. Gliva-McConvey, up from 69 programs in 1991-92.
Dr. Mark Swartz, director of the Morchand Center for Clinical Competence at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, where students from six New York medical schools practice clinical skills, said that the reluctance of doctors to perform routine pelvic examinations needs to be addressed.
At the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences in Little Rock, for example, both programs have grown significantly, said Mary Cantrell, who was an actress and a standardized patient before become director of the school's clinical skills center.
``It was pretty clear we were doing a pretty terrible job teaching medical students how to do pelvic exams,'' said Dr. Robert Kretzschmar, now in private practice in Iowa City, Iowa.
``All a student's folkways, all their traditions are being challenged,'' said Cathey Bienkowski, who has coordinated associate programs in the New York City area since 1982.
That makes such programs even more necessary, said Dr. Lila Wallis, a past president of the American Medical Women's Association and founder of Cornell University's associate program.
Called genital teaching associates, or GTAs, they use their bodies as models to teach breast, pelvic and genital-urinary examination techniques to medical students, residents and even doctors.
Now, in the era of managed care, the associate's role has become even more important, as health care companies closely guard their doctors' hours, said Ms. Gliva-McConvey.
After a December session of pelvic and breast examinations at Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx, Ms. Wang said with a mixture of relief and confidence, ``I thought it would be uncomfortable to be instructed from that position, but now I don't see a better way of doing it.''
