NEW YORK _ As the authorities searched for the captain of the smuggling boat that ran aground Saturday night in New Jersey, investigators Monday began to interview its 22 Chinese passengers in the hope of learning who organized and profited from their flight.
His 30-foot fiberglass pleasure boat, the Oops II, ran aground at the end of Mount Street in Bay Head, one of the wealthiest towns on the Jersey Shore, and for the first three hours, the police treated the incident as little more than a case of a captain who had floundered in heavy fog and purposely beached his craft.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service released little information about the detainees Monday, other than that they came from Fujian Province, the starting point for many of the illegal Chinese immigrants who have made the tortuous journey to American shores in recent years.
While many Fujian immigrants have risen to positions of political and economic power in the Chinese-American community in New York, the province, a hodgepodge mix of booming businesses and impoverished rural farms, also supplies the bulk of the underpaid and undocumented sweatshop work force.
To help choke off the smuggling pipelines that bring in Asian and other illegal immigrants, the INS has opened 13 new offices around the world in the past three years in an effort to intercept them before they reach the United States.
Investigators were still searching for the captain and presumed owner of the boat, who slipped through police hands before anyone realized that the abandoned craft had unloaded a human cargo of illegal immigrants.
When he was questioned by state troopers at a phone booth near the boat, Choi identified himself as the owner and said he had lost his way while fishing and ran the boat up on the beach because he was running out of fuel.
It was still unclear whether the 22 men, like so many before them, were destined to work off much of the $25,000 to $30,000 in smuggling fees in the sweatshops of New York City.
``At this point, we would operate on the supposition that they are connected to an organized-crime organization of some kind,'' she said, calling the Chinese-smuggling business particularly odious because it funnels hapless immigrants into sweatshop jobs where they are abused, exploited and overworked.
Speaking at a news conference in Washington, the INS commissioner, Doris Meissner, said the facts that were known about the men's journey, although sketchy, fit into a pattern seen in other immigrant-smuggling cases.
