According to their new findings, living healthfully would not only add years to life, it would also add life to years, keeping people well and able to enjoy life far longer than they otherwise might have.
But some skeptics challenged Fries, suggesting instead that practicing good health habits, while likely to add years to life, would also swell the number of years during which people are beset by chronic illness and disability.
Those whose habits put them at lowest risk for health problems delayed the average age at which they developed even minimal disability by nearly seven years _ to age 73 as against age 66 for those at highest risk.
The study, published in April in The New England Journal of Medicine, clearly showed that people with healthier habits not only live longer, they live better, experiencing only half as much chronic disability as their less-prudent age mates.
In 1980, Dr. James Fries, professor of medicine at Stanford University, published a provocative article suggesting that preventive health practices would keep Americans healthier longer and change the shape of the nation's disability and death curve from one that resembles a water slide to one that looks more like a cliff.
At every assessment _ even when the participants were only about 43 years old _ those at highest risk were more likely to report disabilities than those at moderate risk, who in turn had more disabilities than those at low risk.
People with bad health habits that they will not or cannot abandon often make excuses: ``What's the point of living longer _ you'll only spend more years in a nursing home?''
According to his ``compression of morbidity'' hypothesis, most Americans, instead of experiencing a more-or-less steady rate of increasing disability and deaths starting at mid-life, could live reasonably well into their 80s, before they begin to die at an accelerated rate.
Although the participants' average age was only 75 at the last assessment, there is every indication that those with healthy habits will on average remain in better health however long they live.
To put it another way, if people could be persuaded to choose more prudent health habits, the majority would reach their ninth decade in good health and then die after, at most, a relatively brief period of illness.
