WINDSOR, Ontario _ The mismatch in collisions between cars and light trucks is causing as many as 2,000 extra deaths a year on U.S. roads, but the nation's automakers have quietly notified regulators that they will redesign their vehicles to improve safety, the United States' top traffic safety regulator said Monday.
But Detroit's Big Three, and many foreign automakers as well, have told regulators in recent months that they plan design changes in cars and light trucks alike to address the problem, Martinez said.
The official, Dr. Ricardo Martinez, administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said the growing popularity of sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickup trucks, all of which are classified by the government as light trucks, was adding to the death toll.
Martinez also disagreed with recent assertions by some auto industry lobbyists that government crash tests had found little evidence of a safety problem that light trucks inflict on cars.
While sport utility vehicles in particular remain a small percentage of the vehicles on the road, sales are growing so quickly that steps must be taken now to prevent serious safety problems in the future, Martinez said.
But managers for General Motors and Ford have said in recent interviews that they will redesign the suspensions on their sport utility vehicles so that these trucks ride closer down to the wheels, reducing the likelihood that in collisions they will override the bumpers and other safety systems of cars.
But his aides said later that the safety agency had arrived at the number by calculating the number of deaths that would be avoided if all light trucks now on the road were replaced with cars.
Martinez spoke at the opening of the International Technical Conference on the Enhanced Safety of Vehicles, a gathering every two years of the world's top safety regulators and researchers.
``Some are minor modifications, some are larger modifications that will take place down the road,'' Martinez said, refusing to provide details.
Although some auto executives have publicly questioned whether a problem exists, he said, the industry had begun working quickly to create better designs.
