Once Pioline nailed a backhand return to the corner at break point to take a 5-4 lead in the fourth set, Safin was transformed from a hot young dog to a hangdog, and when he double faulted at break point to give the veteran a 2-1 edge in the final set, Pioline took care not to squander the gift.
``I don't know all the details, but I think that was a stupid thing; they should have let her go,'' said the 20-year-old Majoli, who hasn't won a tournament since surprising Martina Hingis here in last year's final.
``Experience got me through, and the people,'' said Pioline, who admitted his ``legs and mind'' were just about gone by the time the 6-foot-4-inch Safin shanked a backhand return on the Frenchman's second match point.
Covering the court like a madman, and returning Safin's thundering serve as if he had been programmed to decipher it, Pioline prevailed 7-5, 4-6, 6-7 (5-7), 6-4, 6-4 and remained the last hope of France at this French Open.
Safin, appearing in his first Grand Slam event after making his Davis Cup debut alongside Yevgeny Kafelnikov two months ago in a losing effort in Atlanta, lost his concentration in the fourth set and couldn't retrieve it.
Unlike Kournikova, Majoli spent a sleepless night fretting over her unresolved match: ``I couldn't sleep until the morning; my body was just like so going crazy,'' said Majoli.
But 14 minutes later, off went Kournikova, bounced from contention after her netted backhand on the second match point gave the 29-year-old Novotna a 6-7 (2-7), 6-3, 6-3 victory.
Safin didn't murder his racquet Monday, but his petulance was costly against Pioline, whose tunnel vision seemed to improve in inverse proportion to the teen-ager's loss of concentration, which yielded 72 unforced errors.
PARIS _ Giddy as a man who had just won the lottery, or at the very least won his first career Grand Slam event at the doddering age of 28, Cedric Pioline kissed his racquet, his wristband, and almost kissed Moscow's Marat Safin, the towering neophyte he had outwitted and outlasted in a five-set test Monday.
Though Kuerten was dethroned here in the second round by Safin, his female counterpart, 10th-seeded Iva Majoli of Croatia, kept her title defense intact by claiming the third set of her held-over match with Spain's Conchita Martinez.
