``It's not by chance that this was the deal announced,'' Dr. Daniel Vasella, president of Novartis, said, declining an invitation to express any interest Novartis might have in topping American Home's offer.
Some farm groups, concerned with public acceptance of genetically altered crops and other products of biotechnology, said that merging Monsanto's expertise with American Home's experience marketing over-the-counter products like Advil and Chapstick might be beneficial.
They also questioned Monsanto's agreeing to sell itself while it is busy completing its recent seed company acquisitions and starting a joint venture to create and market agricultural products with Cargill Inc.    ``The timing surprised me,'' said Bonnie Wittenburg, who follows agribusiness for George K. Baum &AMP; Company in Minneapolis.
``This shows investors how we are going to be able to turn the pipeline into earnings,'' Shapiro said in a joint interview with John Stafford, with whom he will be co-chief executive of the company, as yet unnamed, that will be created by the merger with American Home Products.
``We're always concerned about further consolidation of suppliers, but, if anything, it's a positive that Monsanto is aligning with a consumer-oriented company,'' said Mace Thornton, a spokesman for the American Farm Bureau Federation, which represents more than four million farmers.
``That's the most exciting part for me,'' said Verfaillie, who will head the combined agricultural operations of the merged company from St. Louis, where Monsanto is based.
``Monsanto has to be given an A-plus-plus for execution of the biotech vision,'' said Sano Shimoda, who follows biotechnology's impact on agriculture for Bioscience Securities in Orinda, Calif. ``They've recognized that you can't study things to death.''
Monsanto has been among the world leaders in the race to create ``life science'' companies, enterprises driven by the assumption that food, drugs and a wide variety of industrial and energy products in the next century will be based on understanding how genes are structured and how they perform their functions.
CHICAGO _ Ask Hendrik Verfaillie, president of the Monsanto Co., about the benefits likely to emerge from the announcement on Monday of Monsanto's proposed merger with the American Home Products Corp., and he turns the clock back four years.
New products that can attract premium prices from farmers, the faster development of drugs using biotechnology, crops designed to yield healthier food _ these are among the visions driving the Monsanto-American Home Products merger.
