Fat chance, for Puerto Madero had an edge on Skip Away Saturday that he never will have again _ Skip Away carried an extra 14 pounds _ and Skip Away will go on, a horse who never looks as good as he is.
But Tim Smith, the head of the NTRA, was in Boston Saturday, immediately went to Raffeto's office at Suffolk Downs, and assured Raffetto that the MassCap and Suffolk ``will be guaranteed'' a spot in the series of races for older horses that the NTRA will put together for next year.
And (Hine's friend) told me that not since Dr. Fager has a horse had so many 1s on his Sheets as Skip Away.''
If Baffert keeps Silver Charm away from Skip Away even though Skip Away has traveled to California for two big races, then those words first uttered in Boston by Hine (``A coward never wins'') will grow hotter and hotter.
``I can't even read the Sheets,'' said Hine, ``but I was told that Skip Away has so many 1s on his Sheets and they tell me that 1s are about as fast as you can go.
The friend is an avid devotee of Len Ragozin's ``Sheets,'' a complicated measure of how fast a horse runs that is arcane but has devotees who swear on a stack of mutuel tickets that the ``Sheets'' are one of the most accurate measures of a horse's ability.
Hine will bring Skip Away into Baffert's backyard at Hollywood Park for the Hollywood Gold Cup later this month and will remain in Baffert's California bastion for the Del Mar Classic in August at Del Mar.
Skip Away's trainer, Sonny Hine, was asked just how good that is as his prized horse joined three of the all-time greats _ Whirlaway, Seabiscuit, and Cigar _ as a two-time winner of the MassCap.
But then Skip Away ``hit that next gear,'' as the jockey put it, and Desormeaux learned as so many others have learned, that Skip Away is more, much more, than he looks.
Raffetto said he was pleased with his conversation with Smith, even though the NTRA head said it is too early to say how the schedule will be played out next year and whether the MassCap might have to move to another date.
