``This was really about respect, not money,'' said Bret Schundler, the mayor of Jersey City, who nevertheless noted that Ellis Island, N.J., now falls within his city's boundaries and is potentially part of Jersey City's urban empowerment zone.
Christie Whitman chose to proclaim her state's border victory over New York last week by gleefully displaying a T-shirt that said, ``Ellis Island, N.J.''    The governor was celebrating a triumph in a once-obscure dispute between New Jersey and New York over boundaries in the middle of the Hudson River.
Mrs. Whitman, for example, proclaimed herself ``delighted that the Supreme Court has officially recognized New Jersey's place in history,'' and triumphantly set off for a Republican Party fund-raiser in Ohio, where she asserted that the Ellis Island victory was proof that she still had relevance as a politician.
``It's about pride,'' crowed an editorial celebrating the Ellis Island victory in The Star Ledger of Newark, New Jersey's largest newspaper.
The litigation undoubtedly cost New Jersey taxpayers far more than can ever be recouped from the state's newly staked claim to a portion of the sales tax revenue generated by island's gift and snack shops.
The idea of Ellis Island as a national park that needs money for historical preservation has been swamped by the hoopla in the past week, said Peg Breen, president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy.
Never one to remain on the sidelines, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani of New York City scoffed at the idea that New Jersey had any valid claim on the island's mythology.
In a 6-to-3 vote, the Supreme Court ruled that 24.2 acres of Ellis Island landfill were actually in New Jersey, and not in New York as everyone had assumed since the island was expanded starting in the late 19th century to process the arrival of 12 million immigrants.
New Jersey has not indicated whether it might pressure the National Park Service to allow more development on Ellis Island, N.J.
``This Ellis Island commotion really represents the infantilization of politics,'' he added, ``driving it down to the seventh-grade level: `My state whipped your state.'''
