PRODUCTION NOTES:    `THE WIND IN THE WILLOWS'    By Kenneth Grahame; adaptation and lyrics by Gerardine Clark; music, lyrics and additional text by Dianne Adams McDowell and James McDowell; additional lyrics, Katharine Clark; directed by Ms. Clark and Anthony Salatino; musical direction, vocal arrangements and orchestrations by Ms. McDowell and McDowell; musical staging by Salatino; set by Beowulf Boritt; costumes by Mirena Rada; lighting by A. Nelson Ruger IV; sound by David Schnirman; sound effects by James W. Wildman; stage manager, Megan Schneid.
The consistently melodic score by Dianne Adams McDowell and James McDowell is highlighted by the title tune, and the set by Beowulf Boritt, the costumes by Mirena Rada, the lighting by A. Nelson Ruger IV, the sound by David Schnirman and the sound effects of James Wildman all play a powerful, unified role in evoking the ambiance of the novel and the spirit of the familiar Ernest H. Shepard illustrations.
These include the meeting of Mole and Rat; their truncated outing with Toad in his gypsy caravan; the beginning of Toad's motor-car mania; Mole's excursion into the Wild Wood; refuge with Badger; Toad's jailing and escape; the takeover of Toad Hall by the weasels and stoats, and the friends' ultimate triumph.
If this collaboration between the upstate resident theater company Syracuse Stage and professors, recent graduates and students of Syracuse University falls somewhere short of the pure enchantment and innovative Orwellian political vision of last year's short-lived film version, it is nevertheless a colorful, cheery, tuneful and spirited return to Ratty's river, Toad Hall and the unfriendly confines of the Wild Wood.
With: Eric Collins (Mole), Timothy A. Fitz-Gerald (Rat), Michael Poignand (Badger), Lee Zarrett (Toad), Steven X.
Both as a singer and as an actor, Eric Collins makes a delightful Mole; the clear-voiced, athletic Timothy A. Fitz-Gerald proves an agile Rat, and Michael Poignand creates a properly dignified, wise and thoughtful Badger.
The Syracuse Stage production, in association with Syracuse University, presented by the New 42nd Street Inc. At the New Victory Theater.
As adapted and directed (with Anthony Salatino) by Gerardine Clark, a professor in the Syracuse University Drama Department who also wrote the intelligent lyrics, this production hits the high spots of the novel.
NEW YORK _ As all readers of ``The Wind in the Willows'' know, Mole, Rat and Badger are ever the most agreeable of companions.
So it is surely a pleasure to see these eternal friends brought to life once again, this time in the equally agreeable New Victory Theater, where an ambitious musical version of the 1908 children's novel is playing through June 14.
