Variously called Dublin Plantation, Sterling Bluff and Richmond Plantation, the property now renamed the Ford Plantation will be the first development of its kind in the Savannah area.
A group of South Carolina investors called Sterling Bluff Associates is positioning it as the Bar Harbor of the South or the Ocean Reef Club of Georgia, offering second or third homes and presumably attracting families of wealth and station similar to those that frequent the Maine and Key Largo, Fla., resorts.
Along with a third director, Chip Dolan, he and Pollak plan to take the Georgia plantation _ which predates the Revolutionary War _ and transform it into an exclusive, guarded-and-gated, $400 million vacation community with 385 houses and amenities compatible with a four-star to five-star resort.
Targeting youthful, active executives, both male and female, who still perhaps have children at home, developers say they will offer a deep-water marina equipped with slips for large yachts, along with the following:    _ Stables, a paddock and eight miles of waterfront trails    _ Fishing and swimming    _ Squash, tennis and a spa.
Pharaon is currently a fugitive, said a spokesman for the U.S. attorney's office in Atlanta    However, during his heyday as a Georgia-based banker and deal-maker, Pharaon bought the Ford estate.
Although the book is now being used as a marketing tool, Pollak said Pharaon and his family are no longer involved with the Ford Plantation.
RICHMOND HILL , Ga. _ Henry Ford, billionaire titan of the Industrial Age, once found 1,800 acres' worth of tranquillity along the shores of the Ogeechee River outside Savannah.
A farm-style plantation house, a paddock and oddities _ such as the oyster house where Henry Ford entertained his cronies _ sit nearby under canopies of 17th-century live oak trees.
Now, a group of developers hopes those same acres will offer vacation homes, as well as chic and sporty diversion to new Wall Street millionaires of the Technology Age.
Buyers will either add this to their list of destinations, or forsake an existing resort for this ... (but) it sounds like it would sell,'' remarked Eric Kennedy, editor of the duPont Registry, a magazine catering to buyers of million-dollar residences.
