Larry Velez, a spokesman for the office of civil rights at the federal Department of Health and Human Services, said his office's inquiry, which began after clinic staff members and patients filed a complaint, was the first in recent memory examining the civil rights of non-English-speaking patients at a New York City hospital.
Most of the city's hospitals and clinics rely on a patchwork of bilingual staff members, volunteers and, at times, the children of patients to do translation, said Francesca Gany, executive director of the New York Immigrant Task Force on Health.
NEW YORK _ As refugees from Vietnam and Cambodia began trickling into the Bronx about 15 years ago, their minds and bodies scarred by war, Montefiore Medical Center, a private hospital with a long history of serving immigrant and indigent New Yorkers, established a clinic to serve them.
The change has unleashed a flurry of protest by advocacy groups and prompted an investigation by federal civil rights officials into whether refugee patients are being denied ready access to interpreters _ something Montefiore must provide as a condition of receiving federal aid.
Montefiore officials said that at its two Bronx hospitals, a bank of volunteer interpreters and bilingual staff members, who represent 44 languages, provide translation as needed.
Government guidelines require all federally financed hospitals and clinics to ``have ready access to, and provide services of, proficient interpreters in a timely manner.''
The investigation at Montefiore, which has long been considered a leader in caring for immigrant New Yorkers, is being watched closely by other health care providers and by immigrants' advocates, who hope to use it as leverage to bolster their demands that hospitals and clinics improve their interpreting services.
Several staff members at the clinic on 193rd Street said the reassignments were inefficient, forcing them to scramble to find bilingual employees who may be busy tending to other tasks and forcing their patients to wait.
In a statement, officials at Montefiore said the hospital remained ``committed to providing quality care to all of our patients, regardless of nationality or the language they speak.''
``I do hope that because of this,'' Ms. Gany said of the inquiry, ``facilities will look at themselves more closely and do what has to be done.''
