And then, for 15 minutes of the third period, the Stars nearly scared the scarlet britches off the defending Stanley Cup champs and their fans, who sat stunned by a furious Stars rally that might have turned into the biggest comeback in franchise history if not for one final ignominious moment by goalie Eddie Belfour on easily his worst night of the playoffs, if not his life.
All those first-period shots might have looked pretty, they might have even gotten the coach excited, but that's not this team's game and it's not what got them here.
If Game 2 was a must-win contest for the Stars, then the Red Wings' humiliating, 5-3 thumping of the intruders from Texas guarantees even more desperation hockey in Game 4 tomorrow afternoon with Detroit leading the best-of-seven series 2-1.
This game was over five minutes into the second period when, in an 80-second span, the Wings pumped two goals past the nearly comatose Belfour for a 4-0 lead.
But, determined to give the Wings something to think about, here came the Stars, 1-2-3, as in goals flying past the Wings' own papier-mache netminder Chris Osgood.
You couldn't find a week-old, dead eight-legger more rotten than a Stars team that not only forgot what got it here, but got caught up trying to out-Wing the Red Wings, connoisseurs of the fly-and-sigh offense, and failed miserably.
The no-offense Stars down by four goals and the Wings on a rampage with half the game to play?
With the fans silenced, the Wings on their heels, the Stars riding the momentum of their three-goal explosion off the sticks of Jere Lehtinen (twice) and Modano, there was nothing farfetched about thinking that this game was headed to overtime, if not an outright Dallas victory.
They can't be near as rancid as what the Stars threw out on the ice for the first two periods last night at Joe Louis Arena.
``That much time to play and the way those guys can fill up the net ...''    There wasn't a soul in Joe Louis Arena not dressed in Dallas black who didn't figure it was all done but for the traditional octopus cookout.
