What's more, much of Pakistan's population and economic heart lie within easy striking distance of India's border, leaving it vulnerable.
Last week's nuclear tests by Pakistan _ coming two weeks after India's own tests _ have abruptly and fundamentally changed the confrontation between India and Pakistan, which had become a limited, relatively low-intensity military standoff.
``A crucial threshold has been crossed, if it's true,'' Krepon said of Pakistan's declaration about fitting its missile.
On Friday, the United Nations Security Council called on India and Pakistan to sign the treaties against the spread and testing of nuclear weapons that, until now, had limited the world's declared nuclear powers to the United States, Russia, Britain, France and China.
For now, the best hope may lie with the fact that a fundamental taboo has existed against the use of nuclear weapons ever since the world learned what those weapons could do when the United States dropped them on Japan to end World War II.
``Unresolved disagreements, deep animosity and distrust, and the continuing confrontation between their forces in disputed Kashmir make the subcontinent a region with a significant risk of nuclear confrontation,'' the Pentagon concluded in a report published before this month's tit-for-tat tests.
Pakistan's missile is said to have a range of 900 miles, which would bring most of India's major cities within striking distance.
American and Chinese troops fought in the Korean War, but that was long before China had nuclear weapons; China and India fought a border war in 1962, but that was before either went nuclear.
And that is where officials in Washington and around the world are looking these days for a glimmer of hope that there is still time to head off a terrifying spiral of escalation that could draw in India's other enemy, China.
The hope is that India and Pakistan will call a halt to their nuclear programs where they now stand, although neither has so far shown much willingness to heed the world's pleas.
