He announced the cigarette makers' first-year payments would be spent on a health insurance program for children, an anti-smoking campaign at the Texas Department of Health, programs at several medical schools and a new private foundation specializing in children's health care.
At the outset, Morales agreed that the Legislature would decide how to spend the payments received after the first year, but initially the attorney general tried to specify how the $1.2 billion due the state the first year would be spent.
Morales' agreement with Ratliff and Junell provides that tobacco funds eventually will be used to pay back any money transferred into the health insurance program from the existing state budget.
There also are policy considerations involved in establishing the new children's insurance program that should be resolved by the full Legislature anyway, Ratliff believes, reflecting, perhaps, a philosophical difference with Morales that goes beyond tobacco dollars.
The agreement doesn't allow tobacco dollars to be spent on the program before the full Legislature approves the expenditure, Ratliff said.
And even if the first tobacco payments were to be transferred from the escrow account, where they have been held during the legal fees dispute, into the state treasury tomorrow, they would remain unspent until lawmakers appropriate them _ sometime after they convene in January.
This new federal program was created after the last session of the Legislature ended last spring and wasn't funded by lawmakers in the current state budget.
Rob Junell, D-San Angelo, the Legislature's chief budget writers, went to court complaining that the attorney general was trying to usurp the Legislature's budget-setting authority, Morales gave in and cut a deal with the lawmakers.
The two key lawmakers _ who weren't in the group targeted by Morales for sanctions last week _ agreed to give special attention to a new Children's Health Insurance Program, a top Morales priority.
Morales is now trying to negotiate an additional $2 billion from tobacco companies to allow Texas to match, proportionately, a tobacco agreement more recently hammered out by Minnesota.
