Charles Reed, who became chancellor of California State University system in March, said he would like to follow a program similar to the one he introduced at the University of Florida in 1985, where it offers no remedial courses; students needing them must go to community colleges or other institutions.
No one knows how many of these students would be able to complete these courses quickly, how many will opt for community colleges or how many will choose other four-year colleges or simply drop out in frustration.
Although they were most prevalent at public community colleges (96 percent of them offered these courses in 1995), they were common at four-year colleges, too, with 72 percent offering the courses.
All the brouhaha last week over the dropping of remedial classes at the City University of New York, one of the nation's largest systems, would make many people think that remediation was a multicultural course invented by CUNY professors.
Few colleges have approached moving remediation off campus with the fervor of the trustees at the CUNY, who despite widespread protests from faculty and students, voted last week to phase out remedial classes at their four-year colleges by 2001.
Officials at the University of Florida say that only 10 percent of the students need remedial work _ well below the figure at CUNY and Cal State.
The California State University, the largest public university in the country with 360,000 students, has set a goal of reducing the percentage of freshmen needing remediation to 10 percent by 2007 from more than 50 percent now.
Remediation is such a dirty word that some colleges will not even admit to offering it, although their catalogs list courses in algebra, grammar and other subjects many students routinely take in high school.
The numbers suggest that once students navigate the remedial classes, many go on to successful college careers.''
Another critical part of the plan, he said, is to give the college placement tests to high school students _ preferably by the 10th grade _ ``as a wake-up call.''
