``If every one of those Republican representatives was as pro-business as they like to maintain when they go home to talk to the local chamber of commerce, you wouldn't have needed a single Democratic vote to pass it,'' said Charles S. Mack, president of the Business-Industry Political Action Committee, which advises about 1,000 business PACs about which candidates are good investments.
But Richard O'Leary, who is chairman of the board of H Enterprises, a Minneapolis company involved in machinery and construction, and who also sits on the chamber's international and economic policy committees, said, ``We now have the social agenda of the month driving our policies that affect international trade and our standing internationally.''
``A lot of American companies are kind of scratching their heads about this `pro-business Republican Congress,' '' said Willard Workman, vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, who deals with international business concerns.
Some business leaders are unhappy that the party's social and religious agenda has in several cases trumped its traditional business concerns.
Business leaders like Mack and others hint that Republicans could pay a price in this year's congressional elections if they continue to ignore them or take them for granted.
Business, said former Republican Rep. Robert Walker, now a lobbyist, needs to recognize the changing political landscape, particularly within the Republican Party.
The Republicans also couldn't pass fast-track, the measure to give the president streamlined negotiating authority on trade, although religious conservatives weren't a factor and the Democrats offered Clinton little help.
``Ironically,'' Workman said, ``I was speaking to a group of American businessmen from Europe and said our biggest allies in the House on IMF were Minority Leader Dick Gephardt and the Democrats.''
Business leaders said having to choose between morality and trade, as supporters portrayed the debate, was a ``false choice.''
Arne Owens, a spokesman for the Christian Coalition, dismissed business' concerns about the bill as ``much ado about nothing from an economic and trade perspective.''
