On their questionnaires, four of the jurors indicated a firm belief that some killings demand the death penalty, seven did not express vigorous feelings about capital punishment, one way or the other, and one, a medical technician from East Flatbush, simply said, ``It is the law in New York State.''
Similarly, a 49-year-old laboratory assistant from Bedford-Stuyvesant, who wrote ``open mind'' when asked her current feelings about the death penalty, also said that in deciding a sentence she would want to know ``the state of mind of the defendant at the time of the act.''
NEW YORK _ One juror, an unemployed resident of Red Hook, Brooklyn, said that he believed the death penalty made criminals ``think twice before committing heinous crimes,'' but that he would not automatically vote to execute every killer, because it ``depends on how and why the murder was committed.''
The three Brooklyn residents are among the 12 jurors who are expected this week to begin determining whether a former jail guard, Darrel K. Harris, will be the first person sentenced to death under the law that reinstated capital punishment in New York State three years ago.
But she also said that she would want to know the ``defendant's state of mind at the time of the murder, the reason for the murder and did the defendant think of the consequence.''
A third juror, an administrative assistant from Bensonhurst with a doctorate in English literature called her feelings about the death penalty ``sobering,'' saying the ``responsibility for someone's life is an awesome one.''
For example, a 35-year-old office worker from East New York said on her questionnaire that she favored capital punishment ``if a person willingly and knowingly plans to murder another person without any remorse whatsoever and for no reason.''
Another juror, a medical technician from Bedford-Stuyvesant said that her first husband had been killed in a 1981 shooting, but that her decision on whether to impose capital punishment in a murder case ``would depend on the evidence presented.''
In 1984 the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, declared the remaining provision of the state's previous death penalty law unconstitutional.
But all said that they would assess the circumstances of the killings, as well as Harris himself, and would consider both life in prison without parole and the death penalty.
