Standard features abound, including automatic climate control, four-speed automatic transmission, four-wheel antilock brakes that work even with the transmission in low range, premium AM/FM/cassette/compact disc stereo, rear heater, power windows/door locks/mirrors, tilt steering wheel, cruise control, heated outside mirrors, dual front air bags, keyless entry, power adjustable front seats and automatic headlights.
Highlights: Completely redesigned for 1998; unequaled off-road performance; full-time four-wheel drive; outstanding quality; new V-8 engine; smooth, quiet ride on- or off-road; roomy interior; lots of safety features.
The new Land Cruiser _ which also comes in a Lexus version called the LX 470 _ now has a 4.7-liter, 32-valve, double-overhead-cam V-8 engine replacing the previous generation's inline six.
_    1998 Toyota Land Cruiser: At a glance    The Package: Full-size, five-door, five- or eight-passenger, V-8 powered, four-wheel-drive, luxury sport-utility vehicle.
I haven't extensively tested the new Land Cruiser off-road yet, but I have driven the previous generation on some of the wildest trails in the nation, including those in the Anza-Borrego Desert State Park in California and the Scott's Gulf Pocket Wilderness along the Caney Fork River in Tennessee's Cumberland Mountains.
Granted, with a base price of $46,397 and a tricked-out sticker of $52,025, it's not likely many owners will put the Land Cruiser to the test on serious off-road routes such as California's legendary Rubicon Trail.
This is the vehicle that has set the standard for sport-utilities since the previous generation debuted in 1991, even against such tough and capable competition as the Range Rover and Lincoln Navigator.
It's hard to imagine the king of the sport utilities getting any better than it was, but that's what happened when Toyota redesigned the Land Cruiser for 1998.
Extras on our test vehicle included luxurious leather seats ($1,820), power moon roof ($1,155), a roof luggage rack ($449), and running boards ($595), which I would decline if I were planning to do much off-roading.
On or off the road, the new Land Cruiser's ride is pure luxury, much smoother and quieter than before.
