``It's a dilemma,'' said Sandra Silverman, a taxi commissioner who voted for the new rules but whose reservations about the $100,000 bond forced Ms. McGrath-McKechnie to postpone the vote on it.
And no one is more bitter than the men and women who bought 400 new medallions at auctions in 1996 and 1997 _ except, perhaps, for more recent buyers who paid even more money, up to $250,000 each for pre-existing medallions, only to learn that prices have plunged as much as $50,000 since the new rules were announced.
When asked whether independent owners whose medallions were already mortgaged to the hilt might find it impossible to come up with another $100,000, Ms. McGrath-McKechnie said that many of them were financing their medallions by choice, not by necessity.
``The city said how good it is to buy the medallion, how it keeps its value, the price never goes down,'' said Lin, an immigrant from Hong Kong and a New York cabdriver for five years, speaking Sunday along a curb in the West Village.
Taxi industry leaders, who filed suit on Friday to overturn the new rules, have asked the commission to consider alternatives to the bond, like requiring owners to contribute to a pool of money to compensate people with the most devastating injuries.
But it is the requirement that every medallion owner set aside $100,000 in a bond _ which accident victims can collect if they get judgments in excess of insurance coverage _ that worries drivers the most.
But Greenbaum noted that the commission, in promoting the medallion auction, held seminars for bankers to encourage them to lend money to medallion buyers.
Neil Greenbaum, a lender and broker who said he financed more than 100 of the new medallion purchases, scoffed at her assertion.
NEW YORK _ When Jack Lin heard his winning bid for a newly minted taxi medallion announced at City Hall last September, he felt a flush of love for his adopted country.
But a cabby who has mortgaged everything he has to buy a medallion _ most of Lin's $30,000 down payment, for example, was scraped up from friends and relatives, while the rest of the money was borrowed from a lender _ has nothing to offer.
