But congratulations are not in order, as the promotion now places obesity in the same class with other preventable heart-disease risk factors such as smoking, high cholesterol, high blood pressure and sedentary lifestyle, according to Dr. Robert H. Eckel, vice-chairman of the American Heart Association's (AHA) volunteer nutrition committee and a professor of medicine and physiology at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver.
But even if all pools had been properly fenced, the number of children younger than 5 years old who drowned would have only dropped by 19 percent, researchers at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in Atlanta reported in the June issue of the electronic edition of the journal Pediatrics.
Since just about anyone with a computer _ regardless of medical expertise _ can publish on the World Wide Web, ``it can present bad medicine on an equal plane with good,'' according to Dr. H. Juhling McClung of the Ohio State University College of Medicine and Public Health in Columbus.
HEART-OBESITY-MED _ NEW YORK _ Obesity has graduated from a contributing risk factor for heart disease to a major one, experts from the American Heart Association are scheduled to announce here Monday.
The findings add to the debate over whether to continue testing men with raised PSA levels, according to lead researcher Dr. H. Ballentine Carter, an associate professor of urology at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore.
(DEVELOPING) (500 WORDS)    DROWN-PREVENT-MED _ EMBARGOED FOR RELEASE MONDAY AT 5 P.M. EASTERN _ Fences can help keep young children away from swimming pools when adults are not around, but they do not prevent all drownings, a national survey shows.
Formerly, obesity was considered a contributing factor to heart disease, but recent evidence has shown that it is, in fact, a major risk factor, Eckel said at an AHA-sponsored media briefing.
(DEVELOPING) (500 WORDS)    PROSTATE-CANCER-MED _ SAN DIEGO _ A blood test that helps detect prostate cancer has been very effective in detecting the disease in men of all ages.
But modest weight loss of 5 percent to 10 percent of body weight can reduce blood pressure levels and high cholesterol, he said.
(500 WORDS)    HEALTH-ONLINE-MED _ EMBARGOED FOR RELEASE MONDAY AT 5 P.M. EASTERN _ Parents should be wary of health advice available on the Internet, a new study suggests.
