The New York Times said in an editorial on Tuesday, June 2:    The latest maneuvering by the White House to avoid accelerated Supreme Court review of its flimsy privilege claims should not deter the justices from grabbing the case.
This is an instance where the court, in its constitutional role, should see the need to intervene in the interest of orderly government and the rule of law.
The nation needs a definitive resolution of the issues that have been raised by the White House to impede the investigation by independent counsel Kenneth Starr.
In an effort to delay the Supreme Court from entering the fray and to avoid being linked in history with Richard Nixon's Watergate strategy, President Clinton has dropped his reliance on claims of executive privilege to protect two aides from testifying about issues being probed by Starr.
But he will continue to impede Starr's investigation into his relationship with Monica Lewinsky by pursuing attorney-client privilege as a reason to challenge, through normal judicial review, some of Starr's efforts to question Bruce Lindsey, a deputy White House counsel.
In papers filed with the Supreme Court on Monday, White House lawyers argued that Clinton's use of the attorney-client privilege raised no pressing constitutional issues and therefore did not require the extraordinary step of expedited review.
But a president's refusal to cooperate with a prosecutor's reasonable requests for information in a legitimate criminal inquiry is itself a matter of constitutional importance, regardless of the excuses used to justify the stonewalling.
Moreover, Clinton's remaining claim of attorney-client privilege is really little more than another executive privilege claim in disguise, given that the lawyer he is trying to shield is foremost a political and policy adviser.
U.S. District Judge Norma Holloway Johnson acknowledged as much when she rejected Clinton's attorney-client privilege claim regarding Lindsey, applying essentially the same reasoning that she did in turning down the claims of executive privilege.
