NEW YORK _ The partners of Goldman, Sachs &AMP; Co. are deep in discussion about how best to structure their storied firm and whether to open it to public ownership, Jon Corzine, Goldman's senior partner, told employees Monday morning, executives at the Wall Street firm said.
``Consideration of this complex issue will quickly be coming to a head'' and ``will be considered by the full partnership,'' Corzine said in a broadcast to employees that was taped, according to several Goldman executives who heard the tape and relayed what he had said.
``The guiding principles in this discussion,'' Corzine continued, are ``what's in the long-term best interests of Goldman, its mission and its employees.''
While proposals for taking Goldman, Sachs public have come up several times in years past, the recent rapid pace of change in the financial-services industry _ in particular, the planned $70 billion combination of Citicorp and Travelers Group, and the rapid expansion of Goldman's chief competitors, Merrill Lynch &AMP; Co. and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter _ make the current discussion at Goldman more urgent.
Its competitors are able to use their stock to expand rapidly into new areas of business and into other parts of the world.
The pressure to expand has prompted discussion within Goldman, Sachs over selling the firm's shares, perhaps even linked with a partnership with another big financial institution.
At Goldman, a firm whose employees are considered the most disciplined and the most loyal on Wall Street, there is increasing anxiety about the partnership's ability to hold its own with just $6.3 billion in capital when its main competitors count their capital in the tens of billions of dollars.
In the past, disagreements between senior and junior partners have often derailed proposals for going public.
In general, Goldman's more senior partners, with their much larger shares in the firm, have tended to favor going public, but the junior partners _ who have yet to acquire substantial stakes _ are less willing to sell.
