WASHINGTON _ The Supreme Court Monday opened the door to lawsuits against the Federal Election Commission by voters claiming that the commission has not adequately enforced the disclosure requirements imposed by federal law on certain political groups.
The 6-3 decision, recognizing what the court referred to as ``voter standing,'' was surprising for a court that has often appeared to go out of its way to shield federal agencies from having to defend their administrative actions in court.
The Clinton administration had argued on behalf of the FEC that lawsuits of this type expressed no more than ``generalized grievances,'' shared by the populace at large, and were not sufficiently particular or concrete to come within the jurisdiction of the federal courts.
The decision was, however, little more than a pyrrhic victory for the plaintiffs in the case, six former politicians and diplomats who oppose U.S. support for Israel and were trying to force the FEC to require a leading pro-Israel lobbying group to disclose membership and financial information.
While ruling that the six men were entitled to bring their lawsuit, the court sent the merits of the nine-year-old dispute back to the election commission under circumstances that make it highly likely that the organization, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, will never have to make the disclosures the plaintiffs have been seeking.
Justice Stephen Breyer wrote the majority opinion, which was joined by Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justices John Paul Stevens, Anthony Kennedy, David Souter and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Justice Antonin Scalia wrote a dissenting opinion that was joined by Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Clarence Thomas.
The case presented the substantive question _ of interest to a broad array of grass-roots lobbying organizations _ of the definition of a ``political committee'' under the FEC Act of 1971.
Under the law, political committees must comply with extensive record-keeping and disclosure rules, which include listing any donor who gives the group more than $200 in a year as well as disclosing the amount and purpose of expenditures.
